                          “BAKHTYAR NAMA,” ETC.



      “Who is he, that is now wholly overcome with idleness or

      otherwise involved in a labyrinth of worldly cares and troubles

      and discontents, that will not be much lightened in his mind

      by reading some enticing story, true or feigned?”—BURTON’S

      _Anatomy of Melancholy_.



                           PRIVATELY PRINTED.



                              MDCCCLXXXIX.



                          EDITION—_300 Copies._









TO FORSTER FITZGERALD ARBUTHNOT, ESQ.,



MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ASIATIC SOCIETY OF GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND.





    MY DEAR ARBUTHNOT,



    Since you have always been warmly interested in my own works as

    well as in Oriental Literature generally, allow me to Dedicate

    to you the present collection of Eastern Tales. This I do with

    the greater pleasure, knowing that no man is more able than

    yourself to appreciate their value for the comparative study

    of popular fictions, and also to recognise their entertaining

    qualities.



               Believe me,



                         Yours ever faithfully,



                                               W. A. CLOUSTON.



    GLASGOW, _April, 1889_.









PREFACE.





It has been justly remarked that “the literature of a nation furnishes

the best guide to researches into its character, manners, and opinions,

and no department of literature contains a more ample store of data

in this respect than the light and popular part consisting of tales,

romances, and dramatic pieces.” The lighter literature of mediæval Europe

affords us an insight into customs, manners, and superstitions which

have long passed away; but in “the unchanging East” the literature of

the Asiatic races, produced at the same period, continues to reflect

the sentiments and habits of the Hindús, Buddhists, and Muslims at the

present day. For among Asiatics belief in astrology, magic, divination,

good and bad omens, and evil spirits (rákshasas, dívs, jinn, etc.) who

are ever eager to injure human beings is still as prevalent as when

the oldest of their popular tales and romances were first written. The

child-like, wonder-loving Oriental mind delights in stories of the

supernatural, and the more such narratives exceed the bounds of human

possibility the greater is the pleasure derived from them;—like our own

peasantry, who believed (and not so long since) in “ghosts, fairies,

goblins, and witches,” as well as in the frequent apparition of Satan

in various forms to delude the benighted traveller, and were fond of

listening to “tales of the wild and wonderful” during the long winter

evenings.



       *       *       *       *       *



The following collection comprises fairly representative Eastern tales;

some of which are of common life and have nothing in them of the

supernatural, while in others may be found all the machinery of typical

Asiatic fictions: gorgeous palaces constructed of priceless gems; wealth

galore; enchantments; magical transformations; fairies and jinn, good

and evil. Those who think that they are “sensible, practical men” (and

are therefore _not_ sensible) would not condescend to read “such a pack

of lies”; but there be men, I wot, who entertain no particularly high

opinion of themselves, to whom what poor Mr. Buckle called “the lying

spirit of Romance” is often a great solace amidst the stern realities of

work-a-day life, and, carried away in imagination to regions where all is

_as it ought to be_, they for a brief season quite forget “life and its

ills, duns and their bills.”



       *       *       *       *       *



But few words are necessary to explain the design of the present

work. I found the four romances diverting and many of their incidents

peculiarly interesting from a comparative folk-lore point of view; and

I felt encouraged by the friendly reception of my _Book of Sindibád_ to

reproduce them as a companion volume and as a farther contribution to

the study of popular fictions. It may be considered by some readers that

my notes are too copious. I know that foot-notes have been likened to

runaway knocks, calling one downstairs for nothing; but as the book is

not specially designed for Eastern scholars (who indeed require none of

the information that I could furnish), I was desirous that nothing likely

to be obscure to the ordinary reader should pass without explanation and

illustration; and since these foot-notes have considerably swelled the

bulk of the book and I shall certainly not profit by them, I trust they

will not prove altogether useless or superfluous. The abstract of the

romance of Hatim Taï—which was an afterthought—and the other matter in

the Appendix will be, I venture to think, interesting to readers “of all

ranks and ages.”



       *       *       *       *       *



It only remains to express my thanks, in the first place, to the learned

Orientalist Mr. Edward Rehatsek, of Bombay, for kindly permitting me to

reprint his translations from the Persian, with which I have taken a few

liberties, but had he revised them himself, I feel sure he would have

made very similar alterations: I much regret that want of space prevented

me from reproducing more of the shorter stories. In the next place, I

(and the reader also, if I am not mistaken) have to thank Pandit Natésa

Sástrí, of Madras, for his translation of the Tamil romance, which I

have entitled “The King and his Four Ministers.” I must also acknowledge

my great indebtedness to Dr. Chas. Rieu, of the British Museum, whose

courtesy, great as everybody knows it is, I fear was very frequently

sorely tried by my “anxious inquiries”; and to Prof. E. Fagnan, of the

École des Lettres, Algiers, and Mr. E. H. Whinfield, who has done good

work in Persian literature, for their kind investigations regarding an

inedited Turkish story-book. Private friends want no public recognition,

but I should consider myself ungrateful did I omit to place also on

record my obligations in the course of this work to Dr. David Ross,

Principal of the E.C. Training College, Glasgow, to Mr. Leonard C.

Smithers, Sheffield, and finally, but certainly not least of all, to my

old and trusty friend Mr. Hugh Shedden, Grangemouth. With so much help it

may well be thought my work might have been of higher quality than I fear

is the case; but there is an ancient saying about expecting “grapes of

thorns,” which I have made my excuse in a former work.



                                                                 W. A. C.









CONTENTS.





                                                                  PAGE



    INTRODUCTION                                                   xix



    HISTORY OF NASSAR                                                3

        Story of Shah Manssur                                       12

        Story of Hatim Taï and the Benevolent Lady                  46

            The Painter’s Story                                     53

            The Washerman’s Story                                   58

            The Blind Man’s Story                                   60

            The Benevolent Lady’s Story                             64

        Story of Prince Kasharkasha                                 69

    CONTINUATION OF THE HISTORY OF NASSAR                           98

        Story of the Foolish Hermit                                112

        Story of the Treacherous Vazír                             114

        Story of the Unlucky Shoayb                                118

    CONCLUSION OF THE HISTORY OF NASSAR                            137



    HISTORY OF FARRUKHRÚZ.



                               CHAPTER I.



        How three brothers set out on a trading journey—How the

          youngest is cruelly abandoned by his elder brethren—How

          he meets with royal favour                               147



                               CHAPTER II.



        The hero’s quest of a throne of marvellous gems            154



                              CHAPTER III.



        The hero goes in quest of four treasure-trees, and is

          married to the Queen of the Fairies                      166



                               CHAPTER IV.



        How the hero pretended to visit Paradise, and caused all

          his enemies to perish                                    182





    THE KING AND HIS FOUR MINISTERS                                193

        Story of the Lost Camel                                    194

        Story of the Hunter and His Faithful Dog                   206

        Story of the Bráhman’s Wife and the Mungús                 211

        Story of the Faithless Wife and the Ungrateful Blind Man   215

        Story of the Wonderful Mango Fruit                         220

        Story of the Poisoned Food                                 226

        Story of the Bráhman and the Rescued Snake                 231



    THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ.



    Proem                                                          237



                               CHAPTER I.



        The Astrologers’ prediction at the birth of our

          hero—His Father is struck with blindness—His four

          Brothers set out in quest of the Rose of Bakáwalí,

          to restore their Father’s sight—He secretly follows

          them—They fall into the toils of Dilbar, an artful

          courtesan, who fleeces them and makes them prisoners     240



                               CHAPTER II.



        The Prince determines to rescue his Brethren—He takes

          service with a nobleman, and makes friends with

          Dilbar’s confidante, by whose instructions he turns the

          tables on Dilbar, and wins all her wealth and her own

          person—He tells Dilbar of his design to obtain the Rose

          of Bakáwalí, and she warns him of the dangers he must

          encounter—He relates the _Story of the Bráhman and the

          Lion_—Dilbar exhorts our hero before his departure       247



                              CHAPTER III.



        Showing how the Prince is helped in his quest by

          a friendly Demon—Marries Mahmúda, a beautiful

          girl—Reaches the Garden of Bakáwalí and plucks the

          Rose—Seeing the Fairy Bakáwalí asleep, falls in love

          with her—Returns with Mahmúda and rejoins Dilbar, who

          liberates his Brethren, before the three set out for

          his own country—On the way he is deprived of the Rose

          by his Brethren, who return home, and by means of the

          Flower restore their Father’s sight                      259



                               CHAPTER IV.



        Bakáwalí, on awaking, discovers that her Rose has been

          stolen, sets out in search of the thief disguised as a

          man, and takes service with the Prince’s Father, the

          King of the East—The Fairies build a grand Palace for

          the Prince, like that of Bakáwalí—The King hears of the

          new Palace—_Story of the Princess and the Demon who

          exchanged Sexes_—The Prince’s Father and Brethren,

          with Bakáwalí (disguised), visit him at his Palace,

          and he discloses himself                                 272



                               CHAPTER V.



        Bakáwalí returns to her own country, and there writes

          a love-letter to the Prince, who sets out to visit

          her—The Mother of Bakáwalí discovers that her daughter

          is in love with a human being, tosses the Prince high

          up into the air, and imprisons Bakáwalí—The Prince

          falls into a river, emerges from it in safety, obtains

          several magical articles, is changed into a young

          woman, then into a foul-visaged Abyssinian, and finally

          regains his own form                                     288



                               CHAPTER VI.



        The Prince comes to the Castle of a fierce Demon

          called Sháh Pykar, where he finds Rúh-afzá, cousin of

          Bakáwalí, a prisoner—He rescues her from the Demon

          and conveys her to her parents—He obtains Bakáwalí in

          Marriage and returns with his beauteous Fairy Bride to

          his own Palace                                           303



                              CHAPTER VII.



        Bakáwalí goes to the Court of Indra, where she sings

          and dances—The Deity, enraged at her love for a human

          being, pronounces a curse upon her—The Prince goes

          to Ceylon, where he finds Bakáwalí confined in a

          Temple, the lower part of her body being turned into

          marble—Chitrawat, the daughter of the Rájá, falls in

          love with him, and on his declining her overtures he

          is thrown into prison                                    316



                              CHAPTER VIII.



        The Prince is married to Chitrawat, but, visiting

          Bakáwalí every night, his new bride complains to her

          Father of his indifference, and the Rájá sends spies

          to dog his steps—The Temple is discovered and razed

          to the ground, and the Prince is in despair              329



                               CHAPTER IX.



        Bakáwalí is re-born in the house of a Farmer—When she

          is of marriageable age the Prince and Chitrawat meet

          her and they all three proceed to his own country,

          where he is welcomed affectionately by Dilbar and

          Mahmúda—Bahrám, the son of Zayn ul-Mulúk’s Vazír,

          falls in love with Rúh-afzá, the cousin of Bakáwalí      335



                               CHAPTER X.



        Bahrám is long love-sick, but by the help of two

          sympathising fairy damsels is finally united to the

          beautiful Rúh-afzá, and all ends happily                 343



    PERSIAN STORIES.



        THE THREE DECEITFUL WOMEN                                  355

            Trick of the Kází’s Wife                               358

            Trick of the Bazár-Master’s Wife                       376

            Trick of the Kutwál’s Wife                             384

        THE ENVIOUS VAZÍR                                          390

        THE BLIND BEGGAR                                           402

        THE KÁZI OF GHAZNÍ AND THE MERCHANT’S WIFE                 414

        THE INDEPENDENT MAN AND HIS TRAVELLING COMPANIONS          425

        THE KING WHO LEARNED A TRADE                               434

        THE HIDDEN TREASURE                                        442

        THE DEAF MAN AND HIS SICK FRIEND                           446

        THE GARDENER AND THE LITTLE BIRD                           448



    APPENDIX.

        Hatim Taï and the Benevolent Lady                          455

            Abstract of the Romance of Hatim Taï                   456

            The Painter’s Story                                    471

            The Washerman’s Story                                  476

            The Blind Man’s Story                                  477

        Story of Prince Kasharkasha                                479

        Story of the Unlucky Shoayb                                489

        History of Farrukhrúz                                      493

            The Ungrateful Brothers                                493

            The Three Expeditions                                  496

            The Expedition to Paradise                             500

        The King and his Four Ministers                            504

        Bengalí oral Version                                       504

            Story of the Woman who knew the Language of Animals    505

            Story of the King and his Faithful Horse               507

            Story of the Wonderful Fruit                           507

        Kashmírí oral Version                                      507

            Story of the Merchant and his Faithful Dog             509

            Story of the Woman who knew the Language of Animals    510

            Story of the King and his Falcon                       510

        Story of the Lost Camel                                    511

        Story of the Hunter and his Faithful Dog                   513

        Story of the Bráhman’s Wife and the Mungús                 515

        Story of the Faithless Wife and the Ungrateful Blind Man   516

        Story of the Wonderful Mango Fruit                         517

        Story of the Poisoned Food                                 518

        Story of the Bráhman and the Rescued Snake                 518

        The Rose of Bakáwalí                                       519

            The Magical Flower                                     520

            The Prince and Dilbar playing Backgammon               522

            The Bráhman and the Lion                               531

            The Princess and the Dív who exchanged Sexes           532

            The Prince obtains a Snake-Gem                         540

            The Prince conceals the Snake-Gem in his Thigh         541

            Bakáwalí at Indra’s Court                              544

            Bahrám transformed into a Bird                         545

        Persian Stories.

            The Three Deceitful Women                              546

            The Kází and the Merchant’s Wife                       555

            The Hidden Treasure                                    558

            The Deaf Man and his Sick Friend                       561

            The Gardener and the Little Bird                       563

        Additional Notes                                           568



    INDEX.









INTRODUCTION.









INTRODUCTION.





Man has been variously described as a laughing, a cooking, and a

clothes-wearing animal, for no other animal laughs, or cooks, or wears

clothes. Perhaps another definition might be added, namely, that he is a

_story-telling_ animal. From bleak Greenland to the sunny islands that

be-gem the South Pacific, there seems to be no race so low in the scale

of humanity as not to possess a store of legends and tales, which take

their colouring from the ways of life and the habits of the people among

whom they are found domiciled. But notwithstanding the very considerable

number of popular tales that have been collected from various parts of

the world, their origin and general diffusion are still involved in

obscurity. The germs from which some of them sprang may have originated

soon after men became sentient beings. It is possible, though not very

probable, that the ideas on which are based the more simple fictions

which are found to be similar—_mutatis mutandis_—among Non-Aryan as well

as Aryan races were independently conceived; but this concession does

not apply to tales and stories of more elaborate construction, where the

incidents and their very sequence are almost identical—in such cases

there must have been deliberate appropriation by one people from another.

And assuredly not a few of the tales which became orally current in

Europe during the middle ages through the preaching monks and the merry

minstrels were directly imported from the East. But even when a tale has

been traced through different countries till it is discovered in a book,

the date of which is known to be at least 200 B.C., it does not follow,

of course, that the author of the book where it occurs was the actual

inventor of it. Men are much more imitative than inventive, and there is

every reason to believe that the Buddhists and the Bráhmans alike simply

adapted for their own purposes stories and apologues which had for ages

upon ages been common to the whole world. All that is now maintained

by the so-called “Benfey school” is that many of the Western popular

tales current orally, as well as existing in a literary form, during the

mediæval times which are found in old Indian books reached Europe from

Syria, having travelled thither from India through Persia and Arabia, and

that this importation of Eastern fictions had been going on long before

the first crusades.



       *       *       *       *       *



Whatever our modern European authors may do in the production of their

novels (the _novel_ has no existence in the East), it is certain that

Asiatic writers do not attempt the invention of new “situations” and

incidents. They have all along been content to use such materials as

came ready to hand, both by taking stories out of other books, and

dressing them up according to their own taste and fancy, and by writing

down tales which they had heard publicly or privately recited.[1] Indeed

they usually mention quite frankly in the prefaces to their books from

whence they derived their materials. Thus, Somadeva tells us that his

_Kathá Sarit Ságara_ (Ocean of the Streams of Story), of the 11th

century, is wholly derived from a very much older Sanskrit work, of the

6th century, the _Vrihat Kathá_ (Great Story), of Gunadhya; and Nakhshabí

states that his _Túti Náma_ (Parrot Book) is chiefly an abridgment, in

more elegant language, of an older Persian work composed in a prolix

style, which was translated from a book “originally written in the Indian

tongue.” So we need not expect to find much originality in later Eastern

collections,[2] though they are of special interest to students of the

genealogy of popular tales in so far as they contain incidents, and even

entire stories and fables, out of ancient books now lost, which have

their parallels and analogues in European folk-lore.



       *       *       *       *       *



The first two romances in the present work form the third _báb_, or

chapter, of a Persian collection of moral tales and anecdotes entitled

_Mahbúb ul-Kalúb_, or the Delight of Hearts, written by Barkhurdár bin

Mahmúd Turkman Faráhí, surnamed Mumtáz, concerning whom all that is

known is given by himself in what Dr. Rieu terms “a diffuse preface,

written in a stilted and ambitious style.” In early life[3] he quitted

his native place, Faráh, for Marv Sháhiján, where he entered the service

of the governor, Aslán Khán, and two years afterwards he proceeded to

Ispahán and became secretary to Hasan Kulí Khán Shámlú: both amírs

flourished during the reign of Sháh Sultan Husain, A.H. 1105-1135

(A.D. 1693-1722). At Ispahán he heard in an assembly a pleasing tale,

which, at the request of his friends, he “adorned with the flowers of

rhetoric,” under the title of _Hikáyát-i Ra’ná ú Zíbá_. In course of

time he added other stories, until he had made a large collection,

comprising no fewer than four hundred tales and anecdotes, divided into

an introduction, eight _bábs_, and a _khátimah_, or conclusion, and he

entitled the work _Mahfil-árá_—‘Adorner of the Assembly.’ After a visit

to his native place, he went to Herát, where he remained for some time,

and thence he set out on a pilgrimage to the shrine at Mashad. But on his

way he was attacked by a band of Kuzzaks in the desert, who robbed him

of everything, including the precious manuscript of his _Mahfil-árá_.

Returning to Ispahán, it may be presumed, though he does not specify

“the place of security,” he re-wrote from memory his collection of tales,

dividing the work into an introduction, five _bábs_, and a _khátimah_.

The work is formed on the plan of the _Gulistán_, or Rose-Garden, of

the illustrious Persian poet Sa’dí, each section being devoted to the

exemplification of a special subject or theme. The introduction comprises

dissertations



    (1) On the necessity of Politeness;



    (2) On the behaviour of a householder, so as to obtain for

    himself happiness in this world and the next;



    (3) On the Education of Children;



    (4) On the advantages of following a Trade or Profession;



    (5) On Hospitality;



    (6) On gratitude for the benefits received from God.



Then follow Five Chapters:



    I—On Civility, Humility, and Modesty, the virtues on which

    amicable intercourse with all conditions of men is based.



    II—On Good Manners and abstention from injuring others by word

    or deed.



    III—On Equanimity in Prosperity and Adversity, and Resignation

    to the will of God in all things.



    IV—On Friendship, or Association: the choice of a suitable

    Companion, and the rejection of an uncongenial or base one.



    V—On the Advantages of Contentment and the Meanness of Envy and

    Covetousness.



    Conclusion: Story of Ra’ná and Zíbá.



The Persian text of this large collection of Tales was printed at Bombay

in 1852. There are two MS. copies in the British Museum, one of which

is described by Dr. Rieu as being embellished with two _’unváns_, or

ornamental head-pieces, gold-ruled margins, and 55 miniatures in the

Persian style.



In 1870 Mr. Edward Rehatsek published, at Bombay, a translation of

the two Tales contained in the third chapter of the _Mahbúb ul-Kalúb_

under the title of _Fortune and Misfortune_, which are reproduced in

the present volume as the _History of Nassar_ (properly Násir) and the

_History of Farrukhrúz_, the Tales being quite distinct from each other.



       *       *       *       *       *



I—In the HISTORY OF NASSAR, son of the Merchant of Baghdád, the _motif_

is that Fate, or Destiny, is paramount in all human affairs, and so long

as Fortune frowns all the efforts of men to better their condition are

utterly futile: an essentially Asiatic notion, and quite foreign to the

sentiments of the more manly and self-relying Western races. It must be

allowed, however, that there seems to be a mysterious factor in human

life which we call “luck,” against which it were vain to struggle;—only

it is seldom to be recognised until it has worked out its purpose! How,

for example, are we to account for a soldier escaping uninjured after

taking an active part in many battles, while his comrade by his side is

shot dead at the first fire of the enemy? There are certainly lucky and

unlucky men who have done little or nothing to bring about their own good

or ill fortune. “Fate,” says Defoe, “makes footballs of men: kicks some

upstairs and some down. Some are advanced without honour, and others

are suppressed without infamy. Some are raised without merit; some are

crushed without crime. And no man knows, by the beginning of things,

whether his course will end in a peerage or a pillory.” And a Persian

poet chants in melancholy strain:



    Strive not to grapple with the grasp of Fate;

      Canst thou with feebleness success combine?

    All vain, ’gainst Destiny thy watchful state;

      Go thou, and to its force thyself resign.



But the Bard of Rydal Mount—the Christian Philosopher, whose grand poetry

is out of vogue in these “double-distilled” days—tells us that



                One adequate support

    For the calamities of mortal life

    Exists—one only: an assured belief

    That the procession of our fate, howe’er

    Sad or disturbed, is ordered by a Being

    Of infinite benevolence and power;

    Whose everlasting purposes embrace

    All accidents, converting them to good.



And it may be safely asserted that no great things were ever done by any

man whose actions were controlled by a belief in mere “luck.” The great

American poet lustily sings:



    Let us then be up and doing,

      With a heart for any fate;

    Still achieving, still pursuing,

      Learn to _labour_ and to _wait_.



The Sinhalese have a number of proverbs about “luck” which might very

suitably serve as mottoes for the Tale of Násir and the subordinate

stories of Mansúr and of Shoayb; for instance, they say: “It hails

whenever an unlucky man goes abroad”; and again: “Even if the unlucky man

have a gold coin in his purse, he is sure to be accused of having stolen

it.” In the tale of Prince Kasharkasha, when the ruined merchant comes

to the young king whom he had formerly befriended, he is dismissed with

a small sum of money, the king fearing lest his old friend’s ill-luck

should also affect him: an idea which is constantly cropping up in

Asiatic stories; though, by the way, it does not appear that the worthy

merchant had himself any such fear when he so generously relieved the

prince from his bitter distress.



It can hardly be said that the “moral” to be drawn from the career of

Násir is a very elevating one. The three pieces of wholesome advice

bestowed on him by his father’s ancient friend, and enforced with such

appropriate stories, did the young traveller little good; for we find him

go on blundering out of one scrape into another, until his “lucky star”

is once more in the ascendant. And in the case of poor Mansúr, though

he does ultimately attain wealth and ease through his own exertions,

yet he was in the first instance indebted to sheer luck in discovering

a treasure-crock in an old ruin. From one point of view, there is droll

humour in some of the incidents in these tales, more especially in

Násir’s unlucky exhibitions of his accomplishments before the king; and

in the narrative of the misfortunes of poor Shoayb, whom another king

strove so persistently to benefit, disregarding the counsel of his prime

minister and setting at defiance the evident decree of Fate;—though one

cannot help regretting that he should have been expelled from the country

after all he had suffered. Let us believe that ere long his “run of

ill-luck” came to an end!



       *       *       *       *       *



II—The HISTORY OF FARRUKHRÚZ may be considered as exemplifying the

Sinhalese proverb which asserts that “the teeth of the dog that barks

at the lucky man will fall out;” for did not all the vile schemes of

the envious vazírs, to compass the death of this Favourite of Fortune,

turn to his advantage and finally to their own well-merited destruction?

True, he was very near losing his good fortune when he parted with

the talismanic ring, and, by the art magic of Kashank the ’Ifrít, was

changed to an old barber in Damascus; but here again have we not an

illustration of another Sinhalese proverb which says that “you cannot

even kick away good luck”? In this spirited little romance the interest

is well sustained throughout, and the scene in Damascus will, I think,

favourably compare with some of the facetious tales in the _Arabian

Nights_. Variants and analogues of the principal incidents are given in

the Appendix.



       *       *       *       *       *



III—THE KING AND HIS FOUR MINISTERS, which is now for the first time

presented in English, has been translated from the Tamil, at my

suggestion, by my friend Pandit S. M. Natésa Sástrí, of Madras, who is

already known in this country to students of the migrations of popular

tales from his _Folk-Lore in Southern India_, published at Bombay,

and his translation of another Tamil romance, _Madanakámarájankadai_,

under the title of _Dravidian Nights Entertainments_, published at

Madras: London agents for both works, Messrs. Trübner & Co. The Tamil

title is _Alakésa Kathá_, or Story of (King) Alakésa, and a short but

not quite accurate account of it is given by Dr. H. H. Wilson in his

most valuable _Descriptive Catalogue of the Oriental MSS. etc. in the

Mackenzie Collection_, published at Calcutta, 1828, vol. i, p. 220. Dr.

Wilson describes the work as “a story of the rájá of Alakapúr and his

four ministers, who, being falsely accused of violating the sanctity of

the inner apartments, vindicate their innocence and disarm the king’s

wrath by narrating a number of stories.” It is, however, only one of the

ministers who is believed by the rájá and the rání to have thus offended,

and his three colleagues successively urge the rájá to inquire into all

the circumstances of the affair before proceeding to punish him, and they

support their arguments with Tales showing the deplorable evils which may

result from inconsiderate actions. An aged minister of the rájá’s father

then comes before the king and relates a story to the same purpose,

and he is followed by the accused minister, who also tells a story as

a warning against hasty decisions, after which he not only makes his

innocence manifest, but shows how he had saved the rájá and his spouse

from a terrible fatality.[4]



In the Appendix of the present work will be found abstracts of Bengalí

and Kashmírí oral variants of this Tale, the frame of which was evidently

suggested by that of the Book of Sindibád, of which the numerous European

versions are commonly known under the title of the _History of the Seven

Wise Masters of Rome_, where a young prince is falsely accused, as

Joseph was by the wife of Potiphar, and his father the king orders him

to be put to death; but he alternately reprieves and condemns him during

seven days, in consequence of his Seven Vazírs, day after day, and the

Lady, night after night, relating to the king stories of the wickedness

of women and of the depravity of men, till at length the innocence of the

prince is proved, and the wanton, treacherous lady is duly punished.—The

leading tale of the Turkish _History of the Forty Vazírs_ (which has been

completely translated into English by Mr. E.J.W. Gibb; London: Mr. George

Redway) is on the same plan, though the stories related by the Vazírs and

the Lady are almost all different.



To the sporadic part of the great Sindibád family of romances belongs

also the Persian work entitled _Bakhtyár Náma_, in which a stranger youth

becomes the king’s favourite and is raised to a position of great honour

and dignity, which excites the envy of the king’s Ten Vazírs, who cause

him to be accused of violating the royal haram, and the young man is

reprieved from day to day through his relating eloquently stories showing

the lamentable consequences of precipitation, and he is ultimately found

to be guiltless, and, moreover, to be the king’s own son, whom he and his

queen had abandoned in a desert when newly born, as they were flying for

their lives.—Another group of tales pertaining to the same cycle is found

in the Breslau printed Arabic text of the _Alf Layla wa Layla_ (Thousand

and One Nights), under the title of “King Shah Bakht and his Vazír

Er-Rahwan,” where the king is induced by the machinations of some of his

courtiers to believe that his favourite minister Er-Rahwan should slay

him within twenty-eight days; and the Vazír, being condemned to death,

obtains a respite by relating to the king each night an interesting story

until the supposed fatal period is past, when the king is convinced of

his fidelity.[5]



Neither the name of the author nor the date of the _Alakésa Kathá_ is

known, but it is supposed to have been written in the 16th century.

It is one of the very few Asiatic collections in which the tales are

all unobjectionable, and while these are found in much older Indian

story-books, they present some curious variations, and are moreover

of considerable interest as illustrating Hindú popular beliefs and

superstitions.



As European mediæval writers were in the habit of piously prefixing

the sign of the cross to their compositions, and Muhammedan authors

invariably begin their books with the formula, “In the Name of God, the

most Merciful, the most Compassionate,” so Hindú writers always commence

by invoking the assistance of Ganesa, the god of wisdom. Accordingly

the _Alakésa Kathá_ opens thus: “Before relating in Tamil the story of

the Four Ministers, which is admired by the whole world, O Mind! adore

and serve him who is the elder of the trident-armed and the remover of

obstacles”—that is, Ganesa, who is said to be the son of Siva and his

spouse Parvati, or of the latter only. Ganesa is represented as having

the head of an elephant, which was perhaps originally a symbol of his

sagacity, but is accounted for in one of the later legends regarding this

deity as follows: The goddess Parvati wished to take a bath one day in

her mansion, Kailasa, during the absence of her lord, Siva. Her female

attendants were engaged in some domestic duties, but she must have her

bath, and there must be a servant to guard the door. So Parvati rubbed

her body with her hands, and of the scurf created a man, whom she ordered

to watch outside the door, and allow no one to enter. It so happened

that Siva returned before his spouse had finished bathing, and he was

opposed by the newly-formed man, whose head he immediately struck off,

and then he entered the bath-room. This intrusion Parvati regarded as a

very great insult, and when she learned that her guard at the door was

slain her rage knew no bounds. She demanded that her first son, as she

termed him, should be restored to life, and Siva, vexed at his rashness,

told his _ganas_ (armies of dwarfs: troops of celestials) to search for

him who slept with his head to the north, to kill him, and place his head

on the neck of the murdered guard. The ganas, after wandering long and

far, found only an elephant asleep in that position, so they brought his

head and fixed it on the neck of the man whom Siva had slain, when, lo!

he at once rose up alive, a man in body, with the head of an elephant.

Siva then appointed him lord of his ganas (_Ganesa_) and adopted him as

his son.—This curious legend is the cause of all Hindús never sleeping

with their heads to the north. Ganesa is said to have written down the

_Mahábhárata_ from the dictation of Vyasa, the reputed author of that

epic. He is represented with four hands, in one of which he holds a

shell, in another a discus, in the third a trident, or club, and in the

fourth a water-lily.[6]



       *       *       *       *       *



IV—THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ was originally written, in the Persian language,

by Shaykh Izzat Ulláh, of Bengal, in the year of the Hijra 1124, or

A.D. 1712. It was translated into Urdú in the beginning of the present

century, by Nihál Chand, a native of Delhi, but, from his residence in

Lahore, surnamed Lahorí. He entitled his version of the romance _Mazhab-i

’Ishk_, which signifies the Doctrine of Love; but when the Urdú text was

first printed, under the care of Dr. Gilchrist, at Calcutta, in 1804, it

bore the original Persian title, _Gul-i Bakáwalí_; the second edition,

published in 1814, by T. Roebuck, bears the Urdú title.



M. Garcin de Tassy published an abridgment (in French) of the Urdú

version of the ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ in the _Journal Asiatique_, vol. xvi,

1835, omitting the snatches of verse with which the author has liberally

garnished his narrative.[7] A complete English translation, with the

verses done into prose, by Lieut. R. P. Anderson, was published at Delhi

in 1851, and the Urdú version was again rendered into English, with the

poetry done into tolerably fair verse, by Thomas Philip Manuel, and

published at Calcutta in 1859. For the version in the present work I

have used both G. de Tassy’s French abridgment and Manuel’s English

translation, following the former when the narrative seemed to be rather

prolix, and the latter when I found the French _savant_ too brief in

specially interesting episodes, thus, I trust, making a readable version

of this charming romance.



In the Appendix will be found copious parallels, analogues, and

illustrations of the chief incidents in the ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ, which

therefore calls for only a few general remarks in this place. It cannot

be said that there is much originality in the romance, most of the

incidents being common to the folk-tales of the several countries of

India, but they are here woven together with considerable ingenuity, and

the interest of the narrative never flags. It may in fact be regarded as

a typical Asiatic Tale, in which is embodied much of the folk-lore of

the East. Like all fairy tales, it has no particular “moral,” for the

hero achieves all his wonderful enterprises with the aid of super-human

beings and by means of magical fruits, etc. The various and strange

transformations which he undergoes in the course of his adventures are

still believed to be quite possible by Muslims and Hindús alike. We very

frequently read in Eastern tales of fountains the waters of which have

the property of changing a man who drinks of them or bathes in them into

a woman, and of transforming a monkey into a man, and _vice versa_. But

this romance is, I think, singular in representing the hero, after having

been changed into a young woman, as actually becoming a mother! In the

account of his transformation to an Abyssinian, and beset by a shrewish

wife and a pack of clamorous children, there is not a little humour. The

magical things which he obtains through overhearing the conversation of

birds are familiar to the folk-tales of Europe as well as to those of

Asia, and I have treated of them fully in the first volume of my _Popular

Tales and Fictions_.



We must regard the first part of this romance—down to the end of the

third chapter—as belonging to the wide cycle of folk-tales in which a

number of brothers set out in quest of some wonderful and much desired

object, and the youngest is always the successful one; but he is deprived

of the prize by his envious and malicious brothers, who generally throw

him into a well, and returning home claim the credit of the achievement.

In the end, however, the young hero exposes the fraud, and his rascally

and cowardly brethren are put to shame. Several of the incidents in the

brothers’ quest of the magical Rose with which to cure their father’s

sight are paralleled in the story of the Water of Life, in Grimm’s

_Kinder und Hausmärchen_, and in the Norse and German stories of the

Golden Bird. Thus in our romance the four elder princes, through their

pleasure-seeking disposition, fall into the toils of an artful courtesan,

while the youngest pluckily proceeds to fairyland and procures the Rose

of Bakáwalí, of which his brothers deprive him on his way home. In such

stories as I have mentioned the elder brothers, if not deservedly

enchanted in some manner on the road, waste their time at a wayside inn,

and the younger is aided in his quest by some animal, troll, or dwarf,

to whom he had done a friendly turn: in our romance the young prince is

helped by a good-natured dív, or demon.



The prediction of the astrologers, with which the romance begins, that

if the king should ever cast his eyes on his newly-born son he should

instantly become blind, has many analogues in other Eastern tales. For

example, in the _Bakhtyár Náma_ we read that a king of Persia, after

being long childless, one night, in a dream, is addressed by an aged man:

“The Lord has complied with thy request and to-morrow thou shalt have a

son, but in his seventh year a lion shall seize and carry him off to the

top of a mountain, from which he shall fall, rolling in blood and clay.”

The vazírs say that the decrees of Destiny cannot be withstood, but the

king declares that he will do so, and then summons his astrologers, who

say that the king after twenty years shall perish by the hand of his

own son. The king causes an underground dwelling to be constructed, in

which he places his child and the nurse. When the prince is seven years

of age, a lion rushes into the cave, devours the nurse, carries off the

boy, and drops him down a mountain. The child is found by one of the

king’s secretaries, who causes him to be properly educated. In course of

time the youth is appointed armour-bearer to the king, who, of course,

does not know that he is his own son, and in fighting with an enemy who

had invaded his kingdom, in the confusion of the battle, the youth cuts

off the king’s hand, supposing him to be on the enemy’s side, and before

dying the king ascertains that his son had caused his death.



In the _Bagh o Bahár_ (see the Appendix, page 478), a young prince, in

consequence of a prediction of the astrologers that he was menaced with

great danger until his fourteenth year, is confined in a vault lined with

felt, in order that he should not behold the sun and the moon till the

fatal period was passed. In Mr. Ralston’s _Tibetan Tales_, the diviners

declare to a king that he shall have a son who shall take his life and

usurp the royal power, setting the diadem on his own head. And we have a

familiar instance in the Arabian tale of the Third Calender, where the

astrologers having predicted that the newly-born son of a jeweller should

be killed when fifteen years old by ’Ajíb the son of King Khasib, the

child is placed in an underground apartment in an island. In the Turkish

story-book known as the _History of the Forty Vasírs_, the soothsayers

predict that a king’s son shall be much afflicted and wander in strange

lands, with tribulation and pain for his companions, from his thirtieth

till he has attained his sixtieth year. In the Norwegian story of Rich

Peter the Pedlar the star-gazers foretell that his daughter should one

day wed a poor man’s son. And in classical legends we have the story of

Danae, the daughter of Acrisius, king of Argos, by Eurydice, who was

confined in a brazen tower because an oracle had said that his daughter’s

son should put him to death.



       *       *       *       *       *



V—THE PERSIAN STORIES have been selected from a collection translated by

Mr. Edward Rehatsek, and published at Bombay in 1871, under the title of

_Amusing Stories._ They occur in the Persian work, _Mahbúb ul-Kalúb_,

of which some account has been given in connection with the first two

romances in the present volume. The first of these stories, that of the

Three Deceitful Women, is very diverting, and, as I have shown in the

Appendix, has its counterparts in France and Spain. It belongs to the

numerous stories of the Woman’s Wiles cycle, and certainly represents

the ladies in no very amiable character. But as a set-off to this tale

of the depravity of women—the subject of many European mediæval stories

and jests, as well as of Asiatic fictions—we have also stories of the

wickedness of men, such as that of the Envious Vazír and that of the Kází

of Ghazní—“blackguards both”!









HISTORY OF NASSAR.









HISTORY OF NASSAR, THE SON OF KHOJA HUMAYUN, THE MERCHANT OF BAGHDAD.





During the reign of the Abbaside Khalífs there lived in the city of

Baghdád a merchant called Khoja[8] Humáyún, who was very rich, highly

respected, and prosperous in all his dealings. The caravan of his good

fortune had for a long time travelled in the lands of success; the hand

of detriment was never extended towards the skirts of his wealth; nor

did the simúm of loss and misfortune ever blow in the gardens of his

prosperity; so that he passed all his days in the cradle of happiness and

content. One day he happened to repose in a retired part of his mansion

on the couch of gladness, when he beheld suddenly two kites overhead

contending for something. After the Khoja had been looking at them for

some time, he perceived that from the claws of one something was hanging

which the other wanted to snatch away. Whilst he was wondering the

object fell to the ground, and on examining it he found it to be a small

bundle which contained three rubies, a diamond, and four pearls, all of

unequalled beauty and price. The Khoja was at first highly pleased at

this occurrence, and joyfully considered it as an additional sign of his

good fortune, and recited this distich:



    Whom prosperity favours,

    Jewels rain upon his head.



But, as he was a man of great discernment and experience, he looked at

this affair in another light, on second thoughts, and considered it as

a mystery, which made him uneasy. He had a grown and intelligent son,

called Nassar, whom he privately addressed thus: “My beloved son, it is

well-nigh eighty years since I began to navigate the ocean of life in the

skiff of prosperity, and it has never deserted me, nor have the autumnal

blasts of reverse ever withered the freshness of my affluence. But as

the splendour of every morn of happiness is followed by the darkness and

night of decrease and misfortune, and the leaves of the rosy volume of

comfort are scattered by the whirlwind of distress; and as



    Fate has not lit a lamp of content

    Which the storm of adversity has not extinguished;



I conclude from this incident that as the humái[9] of my good success

has reached the zenith, the caravan of my prosperity will soon deflect

from the path of my destiny: the ship of my happiness may become wrecked

in the ocean of adversity; and, for all I know, the treasure I possess

may become a prey to the whale of reverse, poverty and misery. This

anticipation may be realised very soon, but as I have spent a life of

happiness and content, and have gratified all the desires of a man, I

wish for nothing more; therefore, if misfortune beset me, I trust I shall

be able patiently to endure its bitterness. But since you have not seen

the ups and downs of life, or experienced any reverse, I do not think it

fitting that you should continue to live with me, and it is in conformity

with the dictates of prudence that you spend some time in travelling; for

wise men have said that travel is a polish which rubs off the rust of

carelessness from the speculum of a man’s mind and a sovereign cure for

inexperience:



    Travel lights the lamp of perfection in a man;

    When a pearl is taken out of the sea it is appreciated.[10]



In Shíráz, the seat of learning,” continued the Khoja, “I have a friend

named Khayrandísh, who was my companion in several journeys, and to

whom I have done some good. You must go to him and say: ‘I wish you to

surrender to me the deposit my father entrusted you with when you were

companions on the road of Bahrayn.’ After receiving that article from

Khayrandísh, take prudence and caution for your guide and go to the

Maghrabí country,[11] because there is much chance of acquiring worldly

goods there, and no one ever returned from it empty-handed. Consider that

precious object as a means to procure you a livelihood, for by presenting

it to one of the kings or grandees of those parts it will soon ensure

you attention; and I for my part shall make over all I possess to my

relatives and friends, and shall devote myself solely to the worship of

God.”



Nassar made his preparations and departed for Shíráz, the seat of

learning; but he had scarcely proceeded two stages in that direction when

a eunuch in the Khalíf’s service, intending to abscond, had at midnight

absented himself from the royal haram with a casket of jewels which he

had abstracted. He walked with great apprehension through the streets in

search of the dwelling of his accomplice, whence he intended to proceed

farther at the break of day; but as the night was very dark he missed the

house, and, by the decree of Fate, entered the mansion of Khoja Humáyún,

which happened to be open. On looking round he soon discovered his

mistake, so he wandered about the house trying to find his way out, but

the Khoja’s slaves having in the meantime locked the entrance as usual,

he had no alternative but to conceal himself in a corner and there remain

till morning.



But the Khalíf’s treasurer soon discovered that the eunuch had decamped

with the casket, and caused proclamation to be made, that any person

harbouring the culprit should at once hand him over to the police,

failing which his property should be confiscated. The royal officials

made fruitless search all night, but at break of day, when the eunuch

of night had retired and the prince of morn established himself in the

palace of the horizon, one of the attendants of the court, who was a

mortal enemy of Khoja Humáyún, passing his house, perceived the eunuch

and took him before the Khalíf; and, considering this a good opportunity

of avenging himself on his foe, he said: “Khoja Humáyún, who trusted

in his wealth and dignity, has committed this crime by instigating the

eunuch to the deed and afterwards secreting him in his house.” The Khalíf

well knew the Khoja’s loyalty and honesty, had often bestowed favours

upon him, and was aware that such an act was not at all consistent with

his disposition; but as the sun of prosperity, in consequence of the

celestial rotations, had deflected from him and set in the west of

misfortune;[12] and the night of distress was intent on obscuring the

precincts of his comfort and destroying the volume of his happiness with

the scissors of extinction; and as the stratagems of enemies have results

like the bites of snakes and scorpions, the insidious words of the

adversary so inflamed the Khalíf’s wrath that he ordered Khoja Humáyún’s

property to be confiscated, his house razed, and himself expelled from

the city without giving him the least opportunity of uttering a word in

his own defence.



On the same day when the simúm of this catastrophe destroyed Khoja

Humáyún’s rose-garden of prosperity, Nassar’s courser of safety also met

with an accident on his journey. In the vicinity of Shíráz a party of

robbers fell upon him and deprived him of everything he possessed; and,

exchanging the robes of affluence and wealth for poverty and nudity, he

arrived in the city in great distress, and having found the dwelling

of Khayrandísh, he made him acquainted with his father’s injunction.

Khayrandísh received him in the most friendly manner possible, and said:

“Dear youth, I am entirely at your service, and was desirous to be

honoured by a message from your father, whose casket with his seal upon

it is in my charge. But the laws of hospitality require that a guest

who adorns my poor hut with the light of his presence should abide with

me during three days, in order that I may entertain him to the best of

my ability;[13] and this applies especially to you, whose presence I

consider as a great blessing. After the expiration of three days I shall

deliver the deposit into your hands.” To this proposal Nassar agreed, and

Khayrandísh rejoiced him with his amity, and provided him with a very

handsome wardrobe.



When the golden lamp of the glorious sun entered the lantern of the west,

and the amber-haired belle of evening removed the veil from her face,

Khayrandísh placed the best food and drink on the table of intimacy, and

after conversing on various subjects with his guest, he spoke to him

as follows: “Friend, it appears that worldly prosperity has left Khoja

Humáyún, and that he has sent you in pursuit of it; for I have lately had

a fearful dream and was very uneasy about his circumstances. So tell me

now what you intend to do with the deposit.” Nassar acquainted him with

his intention to go to the Maghrabí country, and with the injunctions

of his father. Khayrandísh replied: “As the travellers in the path of

rectitude and probity ought to guide those who wander in the desert of

error and inexperience, and as I am under great obligations to your

father, I consider it my duty to be useful to you. Since you have never

before been from home and have spent all your days in affluence, I fear

you will not be able to perform the journey satisfactorily:



    Travel is not easy—its dangers are boundless;

    Difficulties accompany it in all directions.



But as divine grace is the escort of all who intend to journey in the

path of trust in God, I leave you to the guardianship of divine mercy to

protect you from all dangers. I shall, however, give you three counsels,

and hope you will profit by them.” Nassar rejoined: “It is the first duty

of young men to listen to the counsels of intelligent and upright men;

therefore speak, for I shall follow them.” Khayrandísh then spake thus:





FIRST ADVICE.



“Though the deceitful bride of the world may look at you from the corner

of her eye, and may try to bias your mind by her coquettish movements,

lose not the reins of self-possession from your hands, because worldly

prosperity is unsubstantial as the mirage, and the honey of its favour

leaves only the bitterness of deception.



    Give not thy heart to the love of the world,

    For it has destroyed thousands like thee.



When the humái of worldly prosperity spreads its wings over you, covet

not its favours, for it will change at last and regret only will remain.



    Be not intent on riches and dignity;

    For, like henna, they are not lasting.[14]



Prosperity is fickle, and when it has turned its back, all efforts

to recall it are futile. The favours and frowns of the world are the

harbingers of the caravan of prosperity and adversity, for both depend in

every individual case from the propitious or unpropitious consequences

of the rotation of the stars of the times, and are connected with them

like the sun with shadows;[15] nor can they be altered by the foresight

of Lukman, or by the wisdom of a thousand Platos. And such efforts may

be compared to the vain longings of procuring spring in the depth of

winter, or for the light of day at midnight. Thus all the struggles of

Shah Manssur were fruitless, and he reaped only sorrow from them.” Nassar

asked: “What is the story of Shah Manssur?” Khayrandísh thereupon related

the





_Story of Shah Manssur_.



Once upon a time there was a man called Shah Manssur, from the

neighbourhood of Nishapúr, who lived in affluence, but deceitful fortune

had spread the chess-board of hypocrisy, had mated and abandoned him in

the desert of affliction. After he lost all his property, he sat down in

the lap of misery, and finding all his efforts to better his condition

fruitless, he set out for India. When he arrived in Kabúl he was equally

disappointed, so he went one day into the bazár, hoping to find

employment as a porter. There he waited till evening, and every man found

occupation excepting himself. He began involuntarily to shed tears, and

one of the principal merchants, who was returning home from the palace

of the Amír, saw him, and, concluding that he was suffering from some

wrong done to him, asked him the cause of his distress. Manssur informed

him of his circumstances, upon which the merchant took him to his house,

and next morning told him that as he was in need of an attendant he

might stay until he could find something more to his advantage. Shah

Manssur accordingly entered into the merchant’s service, and gained by

his diligence the approbation of his master, but raised the envy of his

fellow servants and incurred the ill-will of his mistress. One day he

felt somewhat indisposed, and the merchant’s wife sent him some poison

as a medicine,[16] but as his distemper was slight he made no use of the

remedy, and kept it in his pocket. Now the merchant had a little son whom

Shah Manssur was wont to carry about, and who was so much accustomed to

him that whenever he cried Manssur only could quiet him. It so happened

that this day the child would not cease weeping, and Shah Manssur was

obliged to take him into the street, hoping to divert him by looking

at the passers-by. Having a little business to despatch, he set the

child for a moment against a wall, which unfortunately fell and covered

him. Shah Manssur was in despair and made a great outcry, whereupon the

merchant came out and asked him why he made such a noise. He told his

master of the accident, at which the merchant was disconsolate, and

the people flocked from all directions wishing to kill Shah Manssur.

Meanwhile the ruins of the wall were removed, and on the child being

extricated he was found alive and perfectly uninjured. The father and

mother of the child were in an ecstasy of joy at his fortunate escape,

and all the people wondered. Shah Manssur fell on his knees and thanked

the Most High, and everybody rejoiced. A man in the crowd proposed that

a medicine be administered to the child, and Shah Manssur immediately

produced from his pocket that sent to him by the merchant’s wife, and

handed it to his master, but as soon as the child had swallowed it he

fell into convulsions and expired. The child’s parents were in despair,

especially the mother, who threatened to commit suicide if Shah Manssur

were suffered to live, because, as she said, he had poisoned her son.

Hereupon the merchant’s servants tied Manssur to a post, and ill-treated

him so much that he fainted, and was abandoned for dead.



In the evening he began to revive and moaned piteously. The merchant

was an intelligent man and could hardly believe Shah Manssur to have

been so ungrateful as to kill his child deliberately with poison, so

he approached the supposed culprit and besought him to speak the truth.

Manssur said that as he was deeply grateful for the kindness he had

received from his master and greatly attached to the child, the thought

of committing such a crime could not have entered his mind; and that

he had only given to the child a remedy which had been sent to himself

by his mistress when he was slightly indisposed. The merchant at once

perceived his wife’s treachery and was convinced of Shah Manssur’s

innocence; but nevertheless he told him that he could no longer retain

him in his service; so he loosed his bonds and dismissed him. Naked and

wounded, as he was, Shah Manssur walked away and took refuge in the

outskirts of the city with an old woman, at whose house he used to stay

in better times when on his commercial journeys. Having explained to

her his case, she received him kindly and set about curing his wounds.

This old woman had a son who was carrying on an amorous intrigue with a

neighbour’s wife. He happened to be absent on that night at a friend’s

house, but his paramour was ignorant of this, and having waited till her

husband was asleep she hastened to her lover’s house, which she found in

darkness, and mistaking Shah Manssur for him she approached his couch.

The wounded man thought it was his old landlady, and began to thank her

for her kind solicitude. In the meantime the husband of the adulterous

woman had missed her and made his appearance in the old woman’s house.

She had just got up to ascertain the cause of the disturbance, and on

perceiving a man standing with a naked sword at the door, she concluded

he was a thief, and at once ran up to the roof of her house and raised an

alarm, which caused all the people of the district to sally forth with

sticks and swords; but the adulterous woman ran off by way of the river,

which was the shortest, to her house and went instantly to bed. In the

confusion her husband was struck by many stones thrown at him when making

his escape, but at last he arrived home and overwhelmed his wife with

reproaches; she, however, yawned, pretended to awake from sleep, turned

from one side to the other, and asked what was the hour of the night.

But the infuriated husband would not be deceived by this subterfuge, but

vehemently accused her of being unfaithful, and even drew his sword. Upon

this the woman cried aloud: “O Muslims! my husband is killing me!” and

the police officers, who were at that moment returning from the alarm

that had been raised by the old woman, caught the words and ran to the

house, when the husband violently struck one of them with his sword, and

after a brief struggle was taken into custody.



After the woman had thus got rid of her husband the wasps of lust again

stung her, and being anxious to know whether her lover was sick she

once more approached Shah Manssur’s couch, awoke him and began her

overtures. The old woman’s son, who had been at a neighbour’s, hearing of

the disturbance in his mother’s house, went home. On his way, however,

when passing near the dwelling of his paramour, he went in, and finding

the house empty he concluded that she had gone in search of himself. He

was not aware, of course, of Shah Manssur being the guest of his mother,

and when he reached home he lit a candle and went into his room, where

beholding his paramour with a strange man, he exclaimed: “I have got a

curious substitute to-night!” The woman fled in terror, but Shah Manssur

fell into the grasp of the young man. The noise of the struggle again

awoke the old woman, who, as before, thought that thieves had broken

into the house, and ran to the roof of the house and screamed loudly.

Her son, supposing Shah Manssur to be the thief, told her that he had

taken him. The old woman tried in vain to undeceive him; but he, incited

by his jealousy and rage, struck her, on which she raised a great noise,

accusing him of wishing to kill her, till some neighbours came and

dragged him off to prison.



Notwithstanding all that had taken place the adulterous woman could not

rest and again repaired to Shah Manssur, who was this time frightened at

her re-appearance, ascribing to her all the mischief that had happened

during the night, and believing her to be an evil spirit was considering

how he might get rid of her. The old woman’s sister, overhearing the

conversation, approached the door to listen. Meanwhile the imprisoned

husband had bribed his jailor, escaped from custody, and made his

appearance at the old woman’s house, where mistaking her sister for his

own wife he wounded her with his sword. The noise again made the landlady

get up, and in the tumult the faithless wife took to her heels, as did

also her husband, who believed that he had grievously wounded her and

chuckled in his heart at the deed. She was, however, very swift-footed,

and when he reached home he found her again in bed and to all appearance

asleep. Pretending to be just awaking, she asked what he wanted, and he

told her he was greatly astonished to behold her safe and sound after he

had killed her at the old woman’s house. The wife sarcastically remarked

that men are once a-year subject to lunatic influences which affect their

minds. Quoth the man: “Possibly this may be the case with me, as I have

been greatly disturbed in my mind during the last two days; you have done

well to inform me of this.”



When the old woman came out from her house she saw no one except her

sister, who was severely wounded. She was amazed, and said to herself:

“All the tumult and mischief of this night occurred on account of the

presence of this man.” So when it was morning she spoke to Shah Manssur,

saying: “Dear sir, as these misfortunes have happened, my son has been

thrown into prison, and my sister will perchance die of her wound; and

as, moreover, my son is very self-willed and incensed against you, it

will be best for you to remove from this house.” Shah Manssur accordingly

left the place and began with great pains to travel towards Gaznín,

bearing the load of misery on the back of sorrow, and reading the

threnody of his misfortunes.[17]



After some time he was overtaken by a man riding on a camel, who accosted

him and had compassion for his wretched condition. The man informed

him that his name was Baba Fys, that his camel was laden with silk

belonging to Khoja Fyra, the vazír of the Amír of Gaznín, who was of a

very benevolent disposition and would no doubt assist him. He then took

Shah Manssur on his camel, and, dreading the dangers of the night, he

proceeded with great speed. The swift motion and his wounds so distressed

Shah Manssur that he earnestly desired Baba Fys to set him down again,

in order that he might pass the night in tranquility and thus be able to

continue his journey in the morning. But his companion told him that to

stop at such a place was by no means advisable, since in the vicinity

there was a mountain pass to which many animals resorted under the

leadership of a monkey named Paykar, who had plundered many caravans.

By the prayers of the Lord Sulayman, they could now do mischief only

during the night, and therefore they kept the pass obstructed all day,

so that travellers must necessarily hasten through it in the night, but

after that the road was quite safe, and then he might rest himself.

Shah Manssur, however, was in such great distress, and so determined to

alight, that Baba Fys, unwilling to abandon him to his fate, was obliged

to comply with his request. They agreed to sleep and relieve each other

by turns, but had rested only a short time when they perceived a camel

approaching them, ridden by a monkey and guided by a bear. Many other

animals of dreadful aspect also came running and attacked the camel.

Hereupon Baba Fys began to lament, and accused Shah Manssur of having

brought him into all this trouble. This attracted the attention of the

monkey, who made a sign to the wild beasts, which immediately pulled

Baba Fys to the ground, bit off his ears and then retired. This incident

so disconcerted Baba Fys that he was ashamed to continue his journey to

Gaznín, and, after bitterly upbraiding his companion for being the cause

of his mishap, he returned to Kabúl.



Shah Manssur, though wretched and on foot, resumed his journey, and

at last reached Gaznín. As it was winter and the city noted for its

coldness, he strolled about till he came to a bath-house, when he said

to himself: “This is a warm place, so I will spend the night in it.”

Accordingly, saluting the keeper, he walked in. The keeper said: “Young

man, you appear to be a stranger; where do you come from? where are

you travelling to? and what is your occupation?” Manssur replied: “I

am a traveller, and the caravan of misfortunes has brought me to this

country.” The bath-keeper then asked him: “Did you happen to meet on

your way a camel-rider named Baba Fys?” He replied: “We were companions,

but in the desert we were attacked by wild beasts, who bit off his ears,

and therefore he has returned to Kabúl.” On hearing this the heart of

the bath-keeper became hot as a blacksmith’s furnace, seething from the

flames of grief, and he exclaimed: “What more distressing news could you

tell me? He is my brother; the camel was my property; and I borrowed

the price of the silk. I must of necessity go home to-night and consult

my relatives on this affair; and as the vazír, who is the owner of this

bath and is at present sick, intends to come here in the morning, I was

ordered to warm the bath well. Do you therefore put fire into it, and

to-morrow I will pay you for your trouble. Take care, however, to stir up

the fuel from time to time, so that the bath may become properly heated.”

After giving these instructions to Manssur, he departed to his house.

But as Manssur was fatigued and glad to be in a warm place, he soon fell

asleep; and on awaking he found the fire was extinguished, so he got

up, and in his anxiety and inexpertness he stirred the fire so as to

break part of the floor above it, in consequence of which the water in

the reservoir rushed down and completely put out the fire again, at the

same time scalding Manssur, who fled from the place in great fear. When

the vazír arrived at the bath in the morning he began to tremble from

the cold, and his malady so increased that he fainted. His attendants

immediately seized the bath-keeper, who asserted, in excuse, that it was

all the fault of the fireman, who had run away. But the vazír suddenly

dying in consequence of having caught cold, his son gave orders that both

the bath-keeper and the fireman should be put to death.



Manssur, however, had made good his escape from Gaznín, and was

journeying towards Lahore when he fell in with a caravan, of which one of

the merchants engaged him as his servant. As Manssur was well acquainted

with his duties, he diligently guarded his master’s goods, and soon

gained his confidence. When the caravan had entered into one of the

pargannas of Lahore, as all the provisions were exhausted, each merchant

gave his servant a quantity of goods to exchange for victuals. Manssur

bartered the goods he had received from his master very profitably, and

returned with various kinds of provisions before any of his companions,

at which his master was so well pleased that he said to him: “I hear

that there are many wealthy persons in this parganna. Take therefore some

goods of high price and dispose of them, and I will give you half the

profits.” Accordingly, Manssur selected merchandise of nearly the value

of five hundred tománs,[18] which he sold for a thousand and returned.

His master gave him three hundred tománs, saying: “Let this sum be the

capital of your business, which you will in a short time increase and

be thus enabled to return to your own country.” Shah Manssur gratefully

received the merchant’s generous gift, and, having bought suitable goods,

again repaired to the parganna, and hawked them about till he arrived at

the gate of an elegant and magnificent mansion, which he concluded to

be the property of some noble or grandee, and thought the owner might

possibly buy all his stock of merchandise. So he deposited his wares

in the shade of a wall and leaned against it, watching the door of the

house. Presently a maiden resembling a húrí[19] in stature, with the

serenity of the moon in her countenance, and with bewitching eyes, came

out of the house with a pitcher in her hand for the purpose of taking

water from the river; and Shah Manssur thus addressed her: “I am at your

service—



    The glances of your eyes are wonderful;

    Whoever beholds them is on the top of felicity.”



But the maiden replied:



    “This is not the place where every caravan stops;

    The lion of every desert is here distrusted.”



Having thus spoken the damsel went her way, leaving Shah Manssur

disappointed. But after a while she returned and inquired of him: “Why

do you stop here?” He answered: “I am waiting on rosy-cheeked ladies,

and my heart is stored with all sorts of services for them.” Quoth the

damsel: “Bring your goods into the house that I may buy them.” So he took

up his wares and followed the girl, who walked very rapidly. They passed

through a corridor with several doors, and arrived in the court-yard of

the mansion, which was a great and lofty edifice of much beauty, having

many apartments elegantly furnished, but untenanted. When he had looked

around and rested himself for a while, he perceived that the maiden had

disappeared. At last he concluded it would be best for him to leave the

place; but as he was roaming from one apartment to another he lost his

way, and finding no way of exit became frightened, yet continued his

search until he reached a hall from the ceiling of which a golden disk

was suspended by chains encrusted with precious stones. On both sides of

the disk small globular bells were dangling, and upon it there was a

phial of glass. The statue of a lion of marble bound in chains occupied

one side of the apartment. While Shah Manssur viewed this scene with

amazement, the same girl entered with a rod in her hand. As he was about

to address her, she exclaimed: “Ha! madman, you have walked into the trap

at last!” and struck the lion so that he began to roar, and the disk,

the chains, and the little bells shook and jingled, accompanied by great

noises, shoutings, and lamentations, which terrified Shah Manssur, who

anxiously wished to make his escape. Meanwhile the phial on the disk

emitted a green substance mingled with flames, which ascended into the

air and filled the apartment with darkness: Shah Manssur almost fainted;

and when the smoke and the flame had subsided, a viper lifted its head

out of the phial, from which it finally emerged and entered the mouth of

the lion. Soon after this the lion sneezed, and from his brains a spider

escaped, which gradually increased in size until it became as large as a

sheep; when it made a still greater effort its skin burst, from which an

old hag of miserable aspect, dreadful as a goblin and ugly as a satyr,

came forth, embraced Shah Manssur very ardently, kissed him, and emitted

from her cadaverous mouth a disgusting liquid which covered his face. Her

putrid breath was like burning sulphur, and made him cough and almost

give up the ghost. This dreadful hag, however, doubled her caresses, and

would not leave him until he fainted away. When he came to his senses

he cried out piteously: “O most gracious lady, deliver me from this

calamity!” But she replied: “Your request cannot be gratified;” and then,

giving him a substance to smell at, he again became unconscious.



Thus Shah Manssur continued during nearly forty days in the grasp

of misfortune. The wretched hag made her appearance once every day,

tormenting him, and causing him to faint for the gratification of her

wicked lust. One day, however, when she was about the same business,

she pulled out a mirror from her pocket and looking into it with great

consternation, was suddenly transformed into a spider, crawled into the

mouth of the lion, whence she again issued in the form of a serpent,

ascended to the disk and disappeared in the phial. Then Shah Manssur

went into the court-yard and tried whether he could escape from the

place. There the girl met him and said: “I am astonished that she has

not thrown you into a trance;” upon which Manssur told her all that had

occurred, and the girl said: “She has a foe in Jábolká, whose machination

she learns from that mirror, because whenever he attempts to ruin this

wicked fairy his figure appears in it, and the accursed one departs

to combat him.” Then exclaimed Shah Manssur bitterly: “O cruel and

merciless woman! the torments which I have suffered in this house are the

consequences of my having by your coquetry been decoyed into it; and now

perhaps you will be compassionate enough to let me depart.” The damsel

replied: “Young man, I have, like yourself, been caught in this shoreless

whirlpool, and have been made the instrument of alluring poor victims,

whom she was in the habit of using for the gratification of her wicked

desires and afterwards destroying. Whenever I disobeyed her she punished

me severely. Her name is Hennána the Witch, and she is a descendant of

the sorcerers of the time of Kolyas, whom the accursed Pharaoh sent

against the Lord Moses (salutation to him).[20] This iniquitous wretch

keeps a similar establishment in Hindústán: she is able, like the wind,

to transport herself in a moment from the eastern to the western parts of

the world, and to carry the flames of misfortune to all places.”



Shah Manssur then asked the girl: “How did you fall into her power?” She

replied: “Know that my father is the chief of Agra and is possessed of

great wealth. He had betrothed me to my cousin, who set out for Banáres

to procure the paraphernalia of the wedding ceremony; and when the report

of my beauty and other qualities had spread through that city, the Amír

verified it, was desirous to marry me, and said to my relatives: ‘I

have heard that you have a beautiful girl, and I wish to take her for

a wife.’ My father and my relatives consented; but as I was deeply in

love with my uncle’s son, I became very indignant and exclaimed: ‘To

how many men will you give your daughter? It is many years since you

betrothed me to my cousin, and though he is absent at Banáres for the

purpose of procuring the things needful for a household, I consider

myself as under his protection, and shall never accept of another husband

as long as I am alive. Do not try to force me, for I would rather commit

suicide.’ This resolute declaration had the effect I desired, and, after

holding a consultation with our relatives, my father determined that we

should all flee to Banáres. I was dressed in male garments, and when

night approached was taken out of the city and given in charge of two

confidential servants who were to explain everything to my cousin, and

we began our journey on fleet Arab steeds. After we had travelled for

three days a fearful wind and thunderstorm overtook us in the desert,

during which I became separated from my escort and was left alone. As

I was roaming about I arrived at a green spot where I discovered a

fountain, and feeling thirsty I alighted from my horse, which at once

took to flight, and in my vain pursuit of it I chanced to meet an old

woman who was weeping piteously and crying aloud: ‘O unhappy fate! have

you at last in my old age and weakness thrown me into such a state that

I must become the prey of wild beasts? Would to God some friend could

take me by the hand and deliver me from this danger!’ I came forward and

said: ‘Old woman, what has happened to you?’ She answered: ‘I was going

on a pilgrimage to Makka, and when our caravan entered this desert it

was plundered by robbers. Here have I been for two days without a morsel

of food. Young man, have pity on my age and helplessness; deliver me

from this calamity, and convey me to a place of security, that you may

be rewarded for your good act.’ I had compassion on the wretched old

woman and was considering what I could do for her, when she handed me

an apple, of which I had no sooner eaten a small piece than I sneezed

and fainted; nor was I sensible of aught until I again opened my eyes

and found myself in this place with that accursed witch. When she saw me

pale and frightened, she exclaimed: ‘Let nothing dismay you, for your

life is not in danger from me;’ and thinking I was a man, she commenced

to fondle me, but I soon undeceived her. Since that time four years have

elapsed, during which, being myself miserable, I was compelled to entice

helpless men into her snares. Nevertheless, one day I conceived that I

might escape and secretly left the house, but I was instantly transformed

into a she-dog, and was pursued by all the dogs in the town, so that I

was again obliged to return to this place. But now I shall propose to

you a means of escape, on condition that you convey me in safety to my

friends.” Shah Manssur eagerly replied: “I promise to do whatever you

require of me,” and the girl went on to say: “When the phial is broken

the witch must die; request her therefore to give you tidings concerning

your family, and as soon as she disappears you must strike the phial with

a stone so as to break it.”[21]



Whilst they were conversing they perceived the accursed hag approaching.

So the maiden left the apartment; and when the witch saw Shah Manssur

weeping she asked him the reason, to which he answered: “It is now a long

time since I was separated from my country, and I have had a fearful

dream which afflicts me sorely.” Quoth the hag: “Be not distressed;

I shall instantly give you information regarding your relatives;” so

saying, she went to the phial, disappeared and quickly returned, and

minutely described to him the dwelling as well as the condition of his

parents and relatives. Manssur was astonished at the accuracy of her

description, but, dissembling, said to her: “I cannot believe all this,

because my country is far distant and you have returned in half a minute.

Unless you bring me a token that you have really been there I cannot

trust you.” Quoth the witch: “What kind of token do you desire?” Manssur

replied: “In the garden of our house is a tree on which I once climbed,

when a portion of my belt was torn off, which I tied to a branch. If you

bring me a rag of the belt I shall then believe you.” When he had said

this the witch went again to the phial, and, as before, disappeared.

This time the girl brought Shah Manssur a stone; he invoked the aid of

God the Most High, and striking the phial, it flew into pieces. Then the

lion roared, the chains clanked, the little bells jingled, a fearful

noise was heard, some blood dripped from the ceiling of the apartment

to the ground, and the magical apparatus, the furniture, the chambers,

and the entire edifice vanished, leaving Shah Manssur and the maiden

standing together in a cemetery, and both poured forth their thanks to

the Most High. Then the girl said: “My dear friend, from hence to Agra

is ten days’ journey;” and handing him some costly pearls she added,

“try to convey me quickly to my parents, and buy with these pearls all

that is necessary for me on the way.” Shah Manssur purchased a camel

with a litter and a slave for the damsel, and sent her off to her own

country, after which he set out on foot, and in a destitute condition,

for Burhanpúr.



When Shah Manssur arrived at his destination he heard that the Amír of

Burhanpúr, while hunting, had lost a precious gem from the hilt of his

sword, and had issued an order that all the citizens should go next

morning to the hunting ground in search of it. So rich and poor, gentle

and simple, left the city and roamed about. Shah Manssur joined the

crowd, and was fortunate enough to find the lost gem. On presenting it

to the Amír he was highly pleased, praised him greatly, and questioned

him as to his connections and circumstances; after which he gave him in

charge of one of his chamberlains to provide for him as soon as possible.

It happened, however, that the Amír died suddenly, and the reward

promised to Manssur came to nothing.



The son of the Amír succeeded his father. One day a merchant presented

him with a parrot that could speak with great eloquence, and the new Amír

entrusted it to the care of the chamberlain, who took the bird home,

and having sent for Manssur said to him: “Take the utmost care of this

parrot, for it may become the means of introducing you to the Amír, and

of your obtaining the reward which his father promised you.”[22] Manssur

took charge of the bird and carried it away; but when he got into the

street the people were all so anxious to see it and pressed so much upon

him that he thought it would be better to take the parrot out of the cage

and carry it in his hand. But unluckily it escaped from his grasp and

flew to the top of the chamberlain’s haram. Manssur had great trouble in

climbing the wall, and just as he had succeeded the parrot again flitted

away and alighted on the roof of one of the haram apartments. Shah

Manssur was so frightened that he said nothing to the eunuch and other

servants, but threw up a cord, by means of which he contrived to reach

the spot; but once more the parrot started off, and in so doing moved

a tile which fell on the head of the chief lady of the chamberlain’s

haram and killed her there and then. The eunuchs and maid-servants, on

discovering this fatal mishap, raised their voices in lamentation, which

caused the chamberlain to leave his office and run into the haram, where

he found everyone in a state of great agitation, and Shah Manssur a

captive in the hands of the eunuchs, and he at once ordered the culprit

to be beaten and thrown into prison, where the poor fellow was kept for

some time and tormented every day until he found a favourable opportunity

and escaped.



Shah Manssur fled to Guzerat, where he wandered about in great distress,

sometimes hiring himself out as a labourer and sometimes as a porter.

One day, when he was unable to obtain either food or employment, he

determined to sell the ring with which the neighbour’s wife had presented

him.[23] He was chiefly induced to take this step by sniffing the

appetising fumes of roast meat in passing a cook’s shop, the owner of

which he approached, and requesting something to eat offered the ring in

pledge for the price. But when the cook looked at the ruby set in the

beazle and then at the poverty-stricken figure of Shah Manssur, he felt

sure that he could not be the lawful possessor of such a gem but must

have stolen it, and that, not knowing its real value, he was ready to

part with it for a meal. Now it chanced that during the preceding night

some thieves had broken into the treasury of the Amír and stolen a great

quantity of gold, silver, precious stones, and valuables of all kinds;

and this audacious robbery had become known throughout the city and the

police were busy searching the bazárs and private houses for the thieves.

So the cook said to Shah Manssur: “Friend, you do not look like the owner

of such a ring as this;—come, tell me where you got it?” “What business

have you thus to question me?” replied Manssur. “Either give me something

to eat or return me the ring.” These words gave rise to a dispute, which

culminated in a fight, wherein the neighbours took the part of the cook,

and on the arrival of the police on the scene they took the ring from

the cook, and thinking it to be one of the articles stolen from the

treasury they dragged Shah Manssur before their superintendent, and

reported that they had recovered a portion of the stolen treasure and

captured the thief.



It happened that a notorious robber named Obayd was at that time, with

forty companions, carrying on great depredations which the police were

unable to prevent, and his fame had so widely spread through Hindústán

that day and night no one could breathe in peace. It is even said that a

few days before the robbery of the Amír’s treasury Obayd sent a message

to the police superintendent, to be on his guard, as he was coming.

Consequently, when the superintendent saw Manssur he supposed him to be

Obayd, loaded him with heavy chains, and sent him to the Amír, together

with the ring, for the purpose of ingratiating himself and displaying

his zeal in the service. But when the Amír looked at Shah Manssur, he

said: “I have always heard that Obayd is a powerful and strong man; this

fellow is weak and looks like an arrant coward: he may possibly be an

accomplice, but he cannot be Obayd himself.” The superintendent, however,

replied: “May your highness live for ever! This man, who seems so feeble,

is strong and bold, and so nimble that he can jump through a finger-ring.

But now that he has been captured by me his powerful limbs have shrunk

together from fear; and I shall put him to the torture forthwith to

compel him to tell the truth.” Said the Amír to Shah Manssur: “Who are

you? and whence have you obtained this ruby?” He replied, “May the Amír

live long! I am a stranger, and the ring is my own property. I have come

to this country on account of the great name and the good report which I

have heard of the Amír. I have fallen into the hands of the police, but I

have no knowledge at all of the robbery of your highness’ treasury.” The

apparatus of torture was then brought, and Shah Manssur, being suspended

by the heels of punishment, forgot in his misery the name of Obayd and

said, “I am Zubayr, and have robbed the treasury.” Now there was a famous

robber of the name of Zubayr, so the Amír believed the poor fellow’s

statement and remarked: “He may be Zubayr.” The superintendent said to

his men: “Take good care of this man to-night, and in the morning we

shall again examine him.” Accordingly they took Manssur to prison, all

believing him to be the robber Zubayr. On the way all the people who had

been robbed by Zubayr rushed up to Manssur and demanded their property;

but the superintendent said: “Do not be uneasy. I shall get back to the

last farthing everything he has taken from you.”



When night set in special watchmen were appointed to guard the prison,

and vaunting their own bravery and fidelity, they took charge of the four

corners thereof. Shah Manssur was unable to sleep, and was thinking how

the morning would dawn on his innocent head, when he heard sounds of

striking and digging. It was midnight, and he hearkened to the sounds

with fear and trembling, till suddenly the wall opened, from which a hand

grasping a sword protruded, at which Manssur became so terrified that he

nearly fainted, for he weened it was a man belonging to the police. A

voice, however, exclaimed: “Friend, be not afraid. I have come to save

you. We have no time to lose in explanations;” and with these words a

strong man seized Shah Manssur with his fetters and chains, carried him

out of the prison, let him down the wall of the fort by a rope, and

conveyed him quickly to a ruin at a distance of nearly three farasangs.

When he arrived there he placed Manssur on his feet, and raising a

great stone which covered the entrance to an underground chamber, they

descended into it, and there he set poor Manssur free from his heavy

bonds, after which he thus addressed him: “Young man, be comfortable and

rest yourself, for I know you have suffered much.” Then placing before

him different kinds of delicious food, he added: “Eat cheerfully, for

your misfortunes are now ended.”



After Shah Manssur had eaten he went to sleep; and when he awoke he spoke

thus to his deliverer: “Generous and kind man, although honesty radiates

from your august countenance and I feel happy in your company, yet, as

it is my fate to wander in the desert of grief and to fall perpetually

from one calamity to another, you would greatly relieve my apprehensions

by informing me of the motives of your kind act.” The man replied: “I

am the robber of the Amír’s treasury! But when I learned that you, an

innocent man, had been imprisoned in my stead, I considered it my duty

to liberate you, and for that purpose I have been obliged to kill many

of the watchmen. To-morrow, when everything becomes known, there will

be great excitement and the police will be in pursuit of me. This is a

secure refuge where no one can discover you; and when the storm is over I

shall find means to convey you out of all danger.” Shah Manssur replied

by expressing his deep feeling of gratitude to his deliverer.



Next morning at sun-rise the superintendent was informed that a number of

watchmen had been killed and that Zubayr had been carried off through an

opening in the wall. At this unpleasant news he was much disconcerted,

and ran at once to the palace to make his report. The Amír was furious

and exclaimed: “You rascal! is this how you have taken care of your

prisoner? This comes only through your gross negligence. I shall hear

none of your excuses. Produce the man, else I shall punish you and

ignominiously expel you from my service.”



When the people of the town learned what had happened, all who had been

plundered by Zubayr accused the superintendent of having connived at the

prisoner’s escape and clamoured for the restitution of their property.

So he asked for a month’s respite and despatched three thousand men in

search of the robber. But after vainly searching in all directions they

returned, and those who had been robbed confiscated the superintendent’s

property, and the Amír expelled him from the city.



Meanwhile the deliverer of Shah Manssur kept him company during the day

and went forth at night in order to ascertain what was going on in the

city; and when he heard of the superintendent’s downfall he hastened

back and said to Manssur: “Praise be to God! the danger is over, and it

is time for me to send you to your own country.” But quoth Shah Manssur:

“Dear friend, I have a difficulty which I wish you to solve for me.”

Said the man: “Speak.” Shah Manssur continued: “Since I have had the

pleasure of your acquaintance, I have discovered nothing improper in your

character; but it is utterly incomprehensible to me how you, who are

endowed with such noble sentiments, can have selected the occupation of a

robber.” His liberator answered:



“My occupation was formerly quite different. Know that my name is Junayd

Muhtashim, and I am a scion of a noble and opulent family. In this

neighbourhood there is a tract of country with flowing rivers, spacious

meadows, fertile lands, many houses and numberless gardens. All that

district belonged to me and was inhabited by my retainers and servants,

and I cheerfully paid all taxes to the Amír, who was for many years

my friend. In course of time, however, the exactions of the government

officials became very heavy; judges, tax-gatherers, and accountants were

sent to me whose rapacity it was difficult to satisfy, and I became

greatly distressed. I repeatedly made complaints to the Amír, and

endeavoured to convince him that he could be powerful only so long as he

treated his subjects with justice, and that oppression could result in

nothing but unhappiness and confusion. But all my advice proved futile,

and when his delegates came again I took refuge in a fort and answered

therefrom. After several days had passed in this way, I heard that it was

the intention of the Amír to plunder me, so I conveyed all my moveable

property into the stronghold and prepared to stand a siege. When the Amír

became aware that he could not very easily get at me, he seized the sheep

and cattle which I possessed outside of the city, and ultimately I was

able to take refuge with my retainers in Hyderábád, whither some persons

came and bought of me all the landed property I had in Guzerat; but as

I could in no other way recover the value of the goods and cattle which

the Amír had forcibly taken from me, I secretly returned to Guzerat to

pay myself from his own treasury or in any other way, and no one has been

able to interfere with me.[24] But you, my friend, must no longer remain

in this place. I have a courser, swift like lightning, to whom fifty

farasangs are an easy stage: mount and ride on him to Hyderábád, where I

shall induce my friends to send you comfortably to Nishapúr.”



Having written a few words to his relatives, explained to Shah Manssur

the position of his house, and presented him with a costly diamond, he

took affectionate leave of him, wished him God-speed, led him out of

the underground apartment, and said: “Wait a moment till I bring you

a horse.” He presently returned with a steed, which when Manssur had

mounted, “This courser,” said his deliverer, “well knows the road, and

when you reach Hyderábád you must throw the reins on his neck, and he

will carry you without fail to the threshold of my house;” so saying, he

led him on to the highway and again bade him farewell.



Shah Manssur prosecuted his journey with great rapidity till he arrived

at Hyderábád, and remembering the injunctions he had received, allowed

the horse to go where it pleased. Thus he rode through the streets till

suddenly a man recognised the horse, and proceeding to Junayd’s house

intimated that a stranger was coming mounted on his horse. Some of

Junayd’s relatives at once went out and asked Shah Manssur where he got

the animal he bestrode. He replied: “The horse is my own, and you have

no right to question me.” These words so incensed the people that they

instantly surrounded him and pulled him off the horse, saying: “This

animal belongs to us. Come—tell us the truth as to how you obtained

it.” Shah Manssur, believing them to be a pack of rascals who wished to

deprive him of the horse, began to use insulting language towards them.

By this time a great number of people had gathered round the horse and

they cried out: “We know this animal: it belongs to Junayd, and these

are his relatives. You must produce some token of your honesty.” As soon

as Manssur learned that these were the friends of Junayd he began to

fumble in his pocket for the letter he had received from him, but could

not find it—on the road he had lost both the letter and the diamond; so

all his assertions that the horse had been given to him by the owner

were discredited. They declared to him plainly that he had either

killed Junayd or robbed him; and then they beat Manssur most cruelly

and imprisoned him until the matter could be cleared up. He was kept in

confinement till one of his accusers fell dangerously ill, and tormented

by the stings of his conscience, when he was set at liberty.



Shah Manssur now reflected: “My remaining in Hindústán is of no use, for

calamities dog me at every step. Alas for the time which I have lost

in roaming about in this country! It were better that I should return

home, and if the Most High please, he can make me happy and cause me to

prosper there.” A caravan was proceeding from Hyderábád to Irán,[25]

and Manssur, sad and disappointed, travelled along with it. On reaching

the outskirts of Nishapúr, he said to himself: “To make my appearance in

this destitute and miserable condition, after a journey from Hindústán,

would distress my friends and cause my enemies to rejoice. Therefore I

will remain here until nightfall and then enter the town and go to my

friends.” He took refuge in a dilapidated building, where he mourned

and wept over his sad fate. After a while an owl flew in, pursued by an

eagle, and sought protection of Shah Manssur, who took up a stone to

throw at the eagle. The stone, however, struck the wall and displaced

a brick, when a quantity of gold ashrafís[26] fell to the ground. Shah

Manssur ran to the place and there found a pot full of gold and silver.

He stuffed his pockets with gold coins and then concealed the pot in

an obscure corner of the ruin, fervently thanking God for this happy

termination of his travels and misfortunes.[27]



He remained in the ruin all night, and in the morning he did not

enter Nishapúr but went to Kazvyn, where he took an apartment in the

caravanserai, changed his habiliments, and bought a large quantity of

the finest merchandise, a string of camels, and three slaves, and made

his entrance into Nishapúr rejoicing. He was most kindly received by his

relatives and friends, and in course of time he removed the whole of the

treasure from the ruin to his own house. Thus he lived in comfort and

prosperity, made several journeys to the country of Rúm and to that of

the Franks,[28] by which he obtained large profits, so that he finally

became the owner of seven hundred strings of valuable camels.



One day when he was sitting with his friends and relating his unhappy

adventures in Hindústán, he mentioned also the affair of the witch, and

asked whether they had seen her about the place. They replied: “We were

sitting together one day in this very house, when a strange cat made its

appearance, looked at each of us attentively, and instantly vanished. Not

long afterwards it came again, ran with great speed up yonder tree, and

immediately falling down, seemed to be in the agony of death, but when we

went up to the animal it had already expired.” Quoth Shah Manssur: “That

was the same witch whose captive I had been for some time, until at last

I contrived to send her here and escape;” and at this explanation they

were greatly amazed.[29]



Shah Manssur once took a large quantity of merchandise, with many

attendants, to the country of Tabríz, which was at that time under the

Turkish government. He waited on the Amír of Tabríz, associated with him,

and so gained his favour that he made him his vazír; and when the Amír

died, the citizens, being pleased with the kind and just disposition of

Shah Manssur in his capacity of vazír, petitioned the sultan to make him

Amír, a request which was readily granted, and Shah Manssur governed in

Tabríz for many years until he died.



       *       *       *       *       *



“My dear Nassar,” continued Khayrandísh, “I have related this narrative

to make you understand that a man cannot attain the object of his desires

by irregular wanderings and inordinate appetites; but if he be patient he

will succeed. The world is a coquette, and the more she is courted the

more coy and prudish she becomes, but if left unnoticed she will try to

gain our favours.”





SECOND ADVICE.



“It is necessary to guard oneself from the wiles and snares of our

fellow-beings, and not to trust implicitly in persons whose character is

neither known nor tried. Whoever walks among thorns must do so with great

care and precaution. This world resembles a picture-gallery with many

apartments, each of which has its own peculiar attractions; but a man who

should spend all his time in the contemplation and enjoyment thereof,

to the neglect and disregard of his daily avocations, would injure his

own interests. Therefore he is prudent who runs not after every fleeting

illusion, but bridles his desires lest he be disappointed and rendered

unhappy, like the geomancer, the washerman, and the painter, who lost

control of their passions and were drowned in the ocean of misfortunes

and errors, grieving over their troubles, which they were unable to

remedy.” Then Khayrandísh told Nassar the





_Story of Hatim Taï and the Benevolent Lady_.



It is related that when Hatim Taï[30] was dispensing his bounty one day

in a hall which had forty doors, by every one of which the destitute

might be admitted, a darvesh entered and thus addressed him: “O vernal

cloud of liberality! the mead of hope expects to be irrigated by you. O

husbandman of the field of beneficence, the aspirants to your favours are

in attendance to receive your refreshing showers, and this gleaner from

the store-houses of your bounty was by the guide of hope directed to the

prosperous mansion of your generosity!



    Bestow gifts, O noble individual,

    For liberality is the lamp in the assembly of Faith.

    Whoever gives a dirham to a mendicant

    Is favourably regarded by God.

    The umbrella of victory, in both worlds,

    Overshadows the glorious heads of the liberal.”



Hatim ordered one hundred dínars[31] to be given to the darvesh, who

again entered by another door and reiterated his petition, and again

obtained one hundred dínars. Thus he repeated his request until he had

come in by all the forty doors, and had obtained the same sum at each of

them. After that he reappeared at the first door and proffered the same

request, upon which an attendant said to him: “Darvesh, you have made

the round of all the entrances and were disappointed at none. How is it

that your greediness is not yet satisfied, and that you have exposed

yourself to a refusal?” The darvesh heaved a deep sigh and replied: “The

fame of Hatim, which extends over the whole world, has induced me to

travel from China to this place. But in that country there is a lady more

liberal than he, inasmuch as her largesses surpass the most extravagant

expectations of those who receive them, so that a hundred Hatims could

not equal in many years the sums which she disburses in one day.” When

the darvesh had thus spoken he disappeared, and Hatim became desirous of

ascertaining the truth of his statement, so he departed for China, and,

arrived there, considering how he might accomplish his object, he walked

about the streets.



He perceived great crowds of people hastening away and inquired the

reason, when a man answered: “In this city there was a man of the name

of Nassar-ullah, who possessed immense riches. He left a daughter who

distributes in great profusion—and has done so for several years—money

to all persons. If you wish to know whether I speak the truth, you have

only to follow the crowd.” Accordingly Hatim went along with the people,

and arrived at a beautiful palace where servants dressed in rich garments

received everyone who wished to enter. Within the palace Hatim saw a

large assembly reposing on silken couches, with tables before them on

which the finest dainties were placed in rich variety and abundance.

After the repast was over a confidential servant appeared with a platter

full of pieces of paper on which different sums were written; and to

every person who was about to depart he handed one of those papers. When

Hatim’s turn came he also received one, and the assembly broke up. As the

people arrived at the gate each man handed his paper to a servant, who

gave him in return a bag full of gold according to the amount specified

on the little ticket. Hatim was so much astonished at what he had seen

that he was constantly thinking of the immense riches of the lady, and

was extremely anxious to obtain an interview with her. So he requested

a chamberlain to procure him the honour of an audience, and on being

admitted into the presence of that queen he addressed her as follows:

“Most exalted lady of the mansions of liberality, and húrí of the castles

of felicity!



    May the rose of your nature constantly

    Be blooming joyfully in the spring of generosity!

    The hand of your liberality, beauteous fairy,

    Is shedding jewels like the vernal cloud.

    Your servant has a difficulty,

    Which causes him great anxiety:

    If you grant my petition,

    I shall humbly explain it.”



That idol of high prosperity gave permission, and Hatim spake thus: “I

hear that the stream of your extraordinary liberality has for several

years flowed with undiminished vigour, and I am curious to know how you

obtained such enormous wealth.” Quoth the lady: “Every assembly receives

light from its lamp, and the destiny of every individual is traced out

on his forehead by the hand of divine providence.



    Love was the bulbul’s, and beauty the rose’s share;

    Liberal persons are the treasurers of the mercy of God.



The state of my affairs is connected with a tale which I shall

communicate to you on two conditions: First, I am informed that at

present there exists a man of the name of Hatim, whose liberality is so

far famed that in spite of my having for a number of years made it my

business to grant to all persons the richest and most abundant gifts,

my name is not even heard of except in this country; therefore I am so

jealous of Hatim that I wish you to kill him. Secondly, I have heard that

in the neighbourhood of Khatá there is an exceedingly high mountain, in a

cave of which a blind man has dwelt for many years, who never utters any

words save these:



    ‘If you possess one barley-corn of justice,

    You will never have half a grain of sorrow,’



and I desire to know his reason for constantly repeating these words.”



Hatim drew the finger of acquiescence over the face of content, took

his leave, and set out for the cave indicated by the lady. There he

found a blind man, whom he requested to relate his adventures. But the

blind man replied: “My good friend, what can have instigated you to make

such a request? I have no doubt that your mind is often exercised with

problems which you cannot solve; and I pray you to consider this question

as one of them.” Hatim, however, went on to say: “Persons of a kindly

disposition generally comply with the requests of the importunate, and I

hope you will not allow me to depart from this place without affording me

the desired information.” Then quoth the blind man: “I shall withdraw the

veil from the surface of the mystery on one condition: It is long since

I heard that there is a washerman in Khatá who goes every morning to the

bank of the river and does nothing but look at a tree which is there,

leap about like a madman, sigh deeply, and repeat these verses:



    ‘Alas, that your picture has left my sight,

    And left my golden chalice empty of the wine of joy!

    It is the wish of my heart that once more I may meet her.’



Now, my good friend, if you acquaint me with the story of that washerman,

I shall have no objection to relate to you my own history.”



Accordingly Hatim proceeded in quest of the washerman, and finding the

blind man’s account of him perfectly accurate, he was not a little

astonished at his actions and said to him: “Friend, if you would kindly

inform me why you act in this strange manner, I might be able to help

you in your troubles and perhaps liberate you from your affliction.” But

the washerman sighed and only said in reply: “The wound of my heart no

medicine can heal, nor can any advice help me. I am incurable, and the

grief of my heart would only be augmented were I to reveal it.



    I had better hide my sorrow from empirics;

    Perchance the divine mercy will cure my grief.”



Quoth Hatim: “Young man, stand not on ceremony with me, for I shall not

quit hold of your skirt until you have told me your adventures.” Then

said the washerman: “I also have a great curiosity regarding a certain

matter, and if you will satisfy it I shall relate to you my story. Know

that in Máchin there is a man who paints on a board, during the whole

year, a picture of the handsomest kind, which he sells in the bazár

at the end of the year for a thousand dínars, and then returns the

money and breaks his picture to pieces. I wish to learn the reason of

this proceeding.” “Alas, and woe is me!” exclaimed Hatim. “Into what a

labyrinth of troubles have I fallen, to be thus required to solve one

enigma after another!” He had, however, no alternative but to go to the

city of Máchin, and it so chanced that he arrived there at the time when

the painter had brought his picture to the bazár and was surrounded by

such a great crowd of people that Hatim could only get near him as a

bidder, and assisted at the sale until the painter broke his picture and

gathered up the fragments, when the crowd dispersed with exclamations of

regret. Hatim then visited the painter and addressed him, saying: “Young

man, what is your opinion regarding hospitality?” In reply the painter

recited these verses:



    “A guest is a flower from the garden of prosperity and mercy;

    He is the fruit of the spring of happiness.

    Whoever is inhospitable injures his own soul.”



He received Hatim in a very friendly manner, and inquired of him: “To

what circumstance may I ascribe the happiness of being visited by you?”

Quoth Hatim: “The mysterious force which attracts kindred spirits to each

other has made me trespass on your retirement.” After an interchange

of courtesies they became quite intimate, and Hatim, anxious to attain

his object, said to the painter: “Dear friend, I conjure you, by the

obligations which you have already conferred on me, to explain the cause

of what I have witnessed this day,” and he thus complied:





_The Painter’s Story_.



In former times, when the refreshing clouds of youth and strength watered

the grove of my life, I decked out my imagination with the variegated

robes of pleasure, and during the greater portion of that period the buds

of all kinds of desires blossomed, and the ardent longings to embrace the

fairy of enjoyment took possession of my heart. I had a delightful garden

in which I walked about one day according to my usual custom, when I

beheld two serpents fighting. One was black, the other white; the latter

seemed to be the weaker and about to succumb to its antagonist; and,

as every one who removes a thorn from the path of a bare-footed person

performs a good action, I drew my scymetar and struck off the head of

the black serpent. That very moment the sky became darkened, something

roared in the air, a phial fell to the earth and was shattered to pieces,

at the same time the white serpent disappeared. I was astonished at

what had taken place, but again returned to the garden next day to walk

about in it. In passing near the bank of a river I observed a white hand

protruding from the water, each finger of which was adorned with a ring

set with precious stones of a brilliancy never before seen by the eyes of

man. The desire of possessing such gems incited me to seize one of the

fingers, when the hand drew me instantly into the river, and on opening

my eyes I found myself in a garden like Paradise, full of the most

beautiful flowers and trees. When I had recovered from my confusion and

astonishment I began to stroll about that spacious garden until I reached

a splendid building, which I entered, and discovered a person seated on a

throne surrounded by attendants. I approached and humbly saluted him; he

received me kindly, called me nearer, and said: “I am surprised to behold

you in this place.” To which I answered: “May it please your exalted

majesty, I have not intruded, but was forced to come into this region,”

and I explained the whole affair. Then quoth he: “On account of the

benefit you have conferred on our family, we were extremely anxious to

see you.” On hearing these words I began to consider to what nation this

man might belong, and what good service I could possibly have rendered

him, when he proceeded to say: “I know that you are thinking of me. My

name is Zayn al-Mafakhir. From Ma-varannahr, which is inhabited by men,

the country as far as China is in my power; and, except my ancestors,

none of the fairies or genii can enter it. I am obeyed by more than

thirty thousand genii and fairies. I have a daughter called Subayha, who

is innocent and beautiful. One of the chief genii had fallen in love with

her and wished to marry her, and with this object had sent a messenger to

enter into negotiations; but, as enmity and strife existed between us, I

refused to have anything to do with him. This so incensed the suitor that

he despatched a genie to steal my daughter; but my spies having informed

me of his proceedings, I constantly watched the girl. She was, however,

wont to visit your garden, and two days ago she happened to be there when

Jarbua assumed the form of a black serpent, and had almost effected his

purpose when you passed by and killed him. Subayha told me of this, and I

resolved to make you her husband.”



When the maiden was shown to me, her bewitching eye at once captured

the fawn of the repose of my heart; and on beholding the extraordinary

attractions of her person I fell ardently in love with her; and Zayn

al-Mafakhir said: “Subayha belongs to you. But, as the nature of a

fairy is entirely different from that of a human being, you must never

contradict or irritate her, but obey her in all things, lest the

thread of your affection be snapped in twain.” I promised to follow

these injunctions most faithfully; married Subayha; obtained all the

necessaries for housekeeping; and Zayn al-Mafakhir went to reside in

another place, leaving his palace with all its furniture and servants for

our use. In due course my wife gave birth to a son, and at the moment a

wolf appeared, to whom she threw the infant, and he walked off with it.

On seeing this act of cruelty my heart was sorely grieved for my child,

but on account of my promise I could not say anything, and renewed my

intimacy with her. After this we had three more children, two of whom

she threw to wolves and the third into the fire; and each time I was

overwhelmed with sorrow, until one day, when a grandee of that region

sent me some rich food, and I was just about to begin to eat it with

perfect zest when my wife dashed it from me, at which patience forsook

me, and I said to her: “Darling, in every thing my only desire is to

please you, and I have never failed in my duty towards you. But what gave

occasion for your unkindness? Three of my children you have given to

wolves, the fourth you have cast into the fire, and sorrow for their loss

had well-nigh killed me, though I did not complain to you; and now you

have thrown away the most delicious food. Surely these are all tokens of

your displeasure and even hatred!” The fuel of these words set the oven

of the lady’s anger in a blaze, and she exclaimed:



    “To expect fidelity from a weak man

    Is like mistaking a drop of water for a pearl.



Young man, on the day of our union you promised not to ask the reason of

anything I should do. The children whom you thought I had given to wolves

and thrown into the fire were simply delivered to their nurses, and all

are alive and well.” Hereupon she showed me our four children, who were

extremely beautiful. Then she continued: “The food which I threw away had

been poisoned by a malevolent genie, and had you eaten of it you would

have immediately perished. But now that you have been so thoughtless I

can no longer remain with you.” Having thus spoken, she became suddenly

changed into a dove and darkness covered the sky. When it was daylight,

the palace, with its furniture and ornaments, its garden and servants,

had disappeared, and I found myself in a cemetery, dressed in the same

garb as on the day when I went to walk in my garden.



For some time after this event I wandered about the streets and bazárs

like a madman, until my relatives applied various remedies which quieted

the excited condition of my mind; but no medicine could heal my grief. In

our neighbourhood there dwelt a painter who was well skilled in drawing

portraits, and I became his pupil to enable myself to perpetuate the

memory of my love and soothe my grief. I attained skill to paint the

likenesses of my wife and children, in which occupation I take such

delight that I complete every year a large picture and sell it for a

high price; but, as my jealousy does not allow me to let such precious

treasures fall into the possession of strangers, I break the picture to

pieces. O my friend, the felicity I enjoyed is gone for ever, and I spend

my life in misery.



       *       *       *       *       *



As soon as Hatim had heard this narrative he hastened back to the

washerman and related it to him, who in his turn now told Hatim the story

of his adventures, as follows:





_The Washerman’s Story_.



I have followed the business of a washerman for many years. My occupation

brought me every day to this place, and once, when I was here as usual,

I observed a dove alighting on a tree. The bird was so beautiful that

I left off my work to admire it. After a while it shook its wings,

its skin opened, and a húrí-like damsel was revealed to my sight. She

descended from the tree and seated herself in my lap. I rubbed the sleeve

of astonishment over my eyes and exclaimed: “What happiness has fallen

to my lot! O most beauteous lady, I am ready to sacrifice my life to

you, and to make you the companion of my joys and sorrows.” But the

damsel replied: “Young man, this is not a fitting time for jesting. I

have come a long way, and feeling very weary I wish to repose for a

while.” So she laid her head in my lap and fell asleep, while I pondered

my good fortune and future enjoyment. Meantime another and still more

beautiful dove settled on a branch of the tree, and presently turned

into a heart-ravishing maiden. Desirous to please her, I expressed some

compliments, to which she thus responded: “Men are of weak intellects

and so fickle that they bestow every moment their affection on a new

object. One eye needs not two pupils and one scabbard cannot contain

two swords. Let no one be thirsty in a river, or wish for flowers in a

garden.” On hearing these sarcastic remarks I gently removed the head of

the first lady from my lap and said to the second: “I renounce a thousand

mistresses like this for half a glance of your eyes,” adding many other

complimentary expressions which pleased her so much that she also laid

her head in my lap and fell asleep. Soon afterwards a third dove alighted

on the tree, and was like the others transformed into a beautiful girl.

Forgetting what I had said to the other ladies, I fell violently in love

with her, but while I was trying to ingratiate myself with the new comer,

the two others awoke, and all three upbraided me in this strain: “O

faithless and ignorant wretch! are you not ashamed of your unsteady and

chameleon-like nature, and do you not know that the first condition of

love is fidelity! Who could ever expect attachment from thee?



    The morning brings light, the evening night;

    Nor can a bat perceive the sun.”



When they had thus spoken they assumed the forms of doves again and flew

away, leaving me to regret my folly and repent of my fickleness. Many

years have come and gone since then, but I can never forget the happiness

which I might have enjoyed, and so I roam about in despair.



       *       *       *       *       *



Hatim took leave of the washerman and proceeded to the cave in the

mountain where he related the history of the fickle lover to the blind

man, who now told him his own history in these words:





_The Blind Man’s Story_.



In former times I was a skilful geomancer,[32] and one day I visited a

tradesman in the town with whom I had some business, on the conclusion of

which he requested me to cast his horoscope. I complied, and it appeared

that he was to find a treasure. I informed him of this, but he smiled

incredulously and said: “I am too well acquainted with my own destitute

condition. What you say is impossible, and I cannot permit you to jest

at my expense.” I repeated the operation, and the result being the same,

I swore that there was no joke at all in the matter. Quoth he: “Where,

then, is this treasure?” Said I: “In this very house.” The door was then

locked and we both began to dig with great energy until we came upon a

large stone, which having removed, we found that it had covered a well.

After consultation it was agreed that he should go down and I was to

remain above to receive the treasure. Accordingly, my friend having

provided himself with a basket, I let him down by a rope, and when he had

filled the basket with gold, I drew it up, and thus we continued until an

immense heap of gold and gems lay beside me. Then I thought to myself:

“It is possible that if I pull him up again he may try to get rid of me,

and so deprive me of my life as well as of a share of this treasure. I

had better leave him in the well, remove these riches privily, and pass

the rest of my life in comfort.” When my friend found that I did not

again lower the basket he began to suspect my design, and cried to me

from the bottom of the well: “Brother, do not harbour any evil thoughts

about me, for I shall never forget your kindness, and we shall make an

equal division of the whole treasure. Draw me up, I beseech you.” But I

would not comply, because I considered that a secret in the possession

of two persons is soon divulged, and both are disappointed. I therefore

took no notice of his lamentations, and was thinking how I might remove

the treasure without the knowledge of any one, and concluded that the

first thing to be done was to cover up the well so that I should be freed

from any apprehensions concerning my partner, and then carry off the

gold and silver by piecemeal. With these ideas I walked about the house

and considered that it would be advisable to wait till nightfall, when I

should cover the well and take away a portion of the treasure. But when

the night set in it occurred to me that I might be attacked by robbers

or that some other mishap might befal me, so I thought it would be more

prudent to wait for the break of day, and then with a quiet mind carry

off my wealth, and thus thinking, I fell asleep.



Now my friend happened to have a mortal enemy who was waiting for an

opportunity to kill him, and being desirous that night of giving effect

to his purpose he came to the house, fastened a rope to the wall, and

by means of it climbed to the roof, from which he descended into the

apartment where I was sleeping. The sound of the man’s footsteps awoke

me, and I leapt up affrighted, crying: “Who is there?” The man, mistaking

me for the owner of the house, caught hold of me and threw me violently

on the floor. “Friend,” said I, “if you want gold and silver, take it,

but spare my life.” “Do you wish to deceive me,” said the ruffian,

“and escape by such a subterfuge? You are as poor as a beggar, and I

shall make you walk the streets as one.” Thereupon he took an awl and

piercing both my eyes with it blinded me for ever, he being in the

hand of Providence the instrument of punishing me for my covetousness.

After having thus avenged himself on his enemy, as he thought, the man

wished to leave the house, but in the darkness he tumbled into the

well and broke his leg. The tradesman, supposing it was myself who had

thus fallen into the well, exclaimed: “Friend, you are wonderfully

covetous, and thereby have not only brought me to this misery but have

yourself now become my partner in misfortune.” But his enemy, mistaking

him for some one whom the tradesman had thus confined, said to him: “I

have punished the man who has imprisoned you in this well.” Presently,

however, he began to cry out from the pain occasioned by his broken leg,

when the tradesman at once discovered it was not I who had become his

fellow-prisoner. I need hardly say that I passed the night in great pain

from my blinded eyes.



Next day the tradesman’s son returned home from a journey to foreign

lands, where he had gained much wealth. On entering the house he was

astonished to find me holding both my hands to my eyes and a heap of

treasure by the side of the open well, and to hear me exclaiming: “I

was comfortable without this treasure, but my covetousness has for ever

deprived me of my sight,” and the lamentations of the two men at the

bottom of the well. He ordered a slave to draw them up, and to his

surprise and joy the first to appear was the young man’s father, who told

him all that had occurred, and when the other man had also been pulled

out, he discovered that his enemy was uninjured and that it was I whom he

had blinded. The tradesman forgave us both, but his enemy died soon after

these occurrences.



I was conveyed to this cave, and every day, morning and evening, two

small loaves are thrown in to me. I have been in this place many years,

but have never ceased to repent of my covetousness.



       *       *       *       *       *



Hatim, having thus ascertained the histories of those three men, at once

returned to the bountiful lady and related them to her, after which she

told him her own story, as she had promised:





_The Benevolent Lady’s Story_.



My father was a wealthy merchant of this country, and very intimate with

all its ruling powers, until he died, when I inherited his property and

lived in comfort. One day as I was sitting at a window I observed a large

company of devotees, preceded by a man reputed to be of great sanctity,

who bore the marks of piety in his countenance. Whenever he stopped a

chair was placed for him, and the people stood reverently around him,

wiping with their sleeves the dust from his skirts and shoes; and in

this manner the procession entered the city. Seeing the stature of

that person invested with the robe of piety and devotion, I was curious

to ascertain what famed hermit or saint he might be, and despatched a

servant to make inquiries. He returned soon and said: “This is Mullah

Tamurtash, the ascetic, who has in the school of abstinence studied the

divine laws and performs his devotions in the hermitage of Abú Tuchmah

and is now come to the city at the invitation of the people to preach

and pray.” On learning this I considered it incumbent on me to pay a

compliment to so holy a personage, so the next day I made up a few

presents and said to a slave: “Take this to the holy ascetic, and request

his prayers for me at the throne of Grace.” My messenger was received

with great kindness, and examined on every circumstance connected with

my affairs. During the ensuing night an alarm of “thieves” was raised

in my house, and when I awoke I found that a number of men had walked

off with all the valuables they could lay hands on, and I sent a servant

in pursuit of them to discover where they deposited my property. The

servant on his return informed me that everything had been conveyed to

the abode of the ascetic. I immediately proceeded to the king’s palace

and stated my case to him, but was not a little surprised to receive this

reply: “This foolish and impudent woman,” said the king, “speaks like

an infidel, and ought to be expelled from the city lest some calamity

should befall us on account of her wickedness. To asperse the character

of a man who has all his life walked in the path of virtue is enough to

call down the wrath of God on our own heads.” I was accordingly driven

out of the city, poor and helpless, and journeyed on foot till I reached

a village, where I obtained shelter in the house of a respectable man;

and having, as my sole property, a ruby ring, I managed, by means of my

host, to sell it for ten thousand dirhams, and as one of the agents of my

father was established in Hindústán I determined to go to that country.

Having purchased a camel and a slave, I set out on my journey and in

due time arrived safely at the house of my father’s agent, to whom I

related my misfortunes. In short, I remained some time in Hindústán and

engaged in commerce, through which I accumulated immense wealth. I then

resolved to return to China, and, having provided myself with seventy

powerful, valiant, and intelligent slaves and put on men’s attire,

proceeded to trade from town to town until I reached my native city. I

readily obtained an audience of the king, to whom I presented a number of

valuable gifts, and soon it was reported far and wide that a very rich

merchant had arrived from Hindústán with a great company of attendants.

One day I gave a quantity of gold and silver to a slave and ordered him

to carry it to Tamurtash the ascetic, with my humble request that he

would remember me in his prayers. At night I ordered all my attendants

to arm themselves and to be on the alert, but keep quiet and concealed.

I was not deceived in my expectation, for about the middle of the night

the ascetic with his followers came, and throwing ropes over the wall got

into the courtyard with the design of plundering my house. Suddenly my

servants leapt forth from their ambush and captured the ascetic with his

forty accomplices, all of whom I caused to be confined in chains. As soon

as morning dawned I went to the palace and made my statement, when the

king ordered the police immediately to search for the thieves. “O King,”

said I, “all the robbers are already captured, and if you will permit,

I shall bring them into your presence.” When the king and his courtiers

beheld Tamurtash the ascetic and his disciples they were amazed, and

the king straightway caused them all to be put to death, saying: “That

woman stated the truth the first time also, but we gave no credit to her

words; she has suffered innocently, and now we have no means to make good

our error.” But I replied, smiling: “That poor woman am I, O King,” and

related the whole affair. The king approved of what I had done, and made

over to me all the property of the ascetic.[33]



“Now, my friend,” continued the lady, “years have passed since I

commenced to bestow the most abundant gifts from that property, and no

diminution appears in it. But in spite of all my liberality my fame is

not known beyond this country, while that of Hatim is patent and manifest

in the world like the sun. You have promised to bring me the head of

Hatim, but you have not kept your word.” Hatim answered: “I am myself

Hatim, and my head is at your disposal,” and drawing his sword he laid it

before the lady. She was greatly moved and said: “True greatness consists

not merely in liberality but in hazarding our lives for those of our

friends, and that you have done. The pre-eminence is therefore yours.

Hitherto I have abstained from accepting the addresses of any man, but

your beauty and liberality induce me to offer you my hand.” Hatim was

highly pleased, drew the hand of response over the eyes of acquiescence,

married her, and lived with her happily for many years until they were

parted by death.



       *       *       *       *       *



When Khayrandísh had ended this tale he said to Nassar: “I have related

these stories to impress on your mind the fact that whoever abandons

the reins of his heart to the promptings of foolish illusions, and the

vain imaginings of his animal passions, will fare like the Painter, the

Washerman, and the Blind Man, will reap only disappointment, carry on

his back the load of bitter memories, and during his whole life taste

nothing but the beverage of shame and repentance.”





THIRD ADVICE.



“Although Fortune may smile on a man,” continued Khayrandísh, “and

distinguish him above his peers, he should be provident and prudent,

and must not despise the counsel of his friends. He must also be on his

guard against enemies, else he will, like Kasharkasha the son of the king

of Fars,[34] fall into the power of his foes, and the rose-grove of his

contentment will be withered by the autumn of grief, and all his life he

will be a wanderer in the deserts of repentance.” Nassar asked: “How was

that?” And Khayrandísh began to relate the





_Story of Prince Kasharkasha_.



There was a king of Fars called Farídún[35] who had a son named

Kasharkasha, whom he educated and kept with himself till he was seventy

years old. The young prince then, wishing to visit India, said to

his father: “Since travel enlightens the understanding and entails

experience, it is my desire to wander by land and sea in the capacity

of a merchant.” Quoth the king: “Beloved son, I would please you in all

things, but separation from you will break my heart, and I am unwilling

to part with you.” But neither these words nor any other entreaties could

induce the prince to forego his purpose, and he was at last allowed to

depart. His father gave him abundance of money and a number of faithful

attendants, and said to him: “Travelling, my son, is often attended by

misfortunes; and in case you should fall into distress, I advise you to

visit the merchant Sadullah, who lives in Baghdád, and is greatly devoted

to and willing to do anything for me.” Then giving his seal-ring to

Kasharkasha he added: “Show Sadullah this signet as a voucher for your

family and connections.”[36]



Kasharkasha bade adieu to his father, assumed the dress of a merchant,

and journeyed to India, where he acquired large profits by commerce, and

then went to the country of the Franks, and became so rich that he bought

a thousand Indian and Turkish slaves, who constantly waited on him. But a

craving for dominion and power is inherent in the nature of all scions of

royalty, and therefore all Kasharkasha’s great wealth could not satisfy

him, and he coveted a crown. He said to himself: “Every undertaking must

succeed if the proper means be employed in its pursuit. A kingdom is

gained by valour and a good army; and, thanks be to God, I possess both,

and prosperity will second my efforts. Indeed, which of my ancestors ever

debased himself by trading? I cannot live in such an unworthy manner; for

voluntarily to descend from a high to a lower position is against common

sense and betokens a mean disposition. In these regions there are many

towns and principalities which I may easily conquer, and in truth most

of the royal personages who attained great fame began only on a small

scale and enlarged their possessions by degrees.” After this Kasharkasha

travelled from place to place in the country of the Franks, seeking for

an opportunity to carry out his design. One day he approached a great

city, and beheld an army composed entirely of cavalry, which belonged to

the king of the city, who, on discovering the squadron of Kasharkasha,

imagined it to be that of an enemy and sent a messenger to make

inquiries. The young prince stated to the envoy that he was a merchant

from Hindústán, and in his turn asked some questions, to which the envoy

replied: “This is Tytmyran, and this is the Jalyák of Tytmyran, who is on

a hunting excursion.” When the messenger returned with the answer of the

young prince, the Jalyák of Tytmyran rode to visit Kasharkasha, who met

him half-way and saluted him courteously, because the lamp of politeness

emits so great a glare as to conceal and overshadow any plans that men

harbour in their minds.



On seeing the courteous demeanour of Kasharkasha the Jalyák at once

concluded that he could not but be of lofty birth, and invited him

to make an excursion into the surrounding country. The young prince

gracefully complied, and their intimacy increased more and more during

the day. They came to a high building, near which the king alighted,

and went into it. After a short space he again came out, and in tears.

Kasharkasha asked the cause of his grief, but the king replied that on

another occasion he would acquaint him with the particulars. When they

entered the city a suitable place was assigned to the young prince and

his followers, and the king taking the hand of Kasharkasha thus addressed

him: “Every man bears in his countenance signs of his character, and

in our first interview I discovered you to be of noble descent and the

scion of a royal family. I also had a son of extraordinary beauty and

accomplishments. He was very fond of hunting and roaming everywhere, and

once he took leave of me for two months and departed with a number of

trustworthy attendants. I counted the days of his absence impatiently,

and when the time for his return elapsed I dreaded that some misfortune

had befallen my son, and despatched some of my officers in search of

him, all of whom returned without success. I was so overpowered by

melancholy that I wept day and night, until at last, after a whole year

had passed, my son made his appearance quite alone, in a destitute

condition and almost naked. As soon as I saw him I exclaimed: ‘Beloved

son, how has the dust of this languidness settled on the skirts of your

happy disposition? and how has your beauty faded? What has become of your

servants and goods?’



“My son replied: ‘Dear father, my heart suffers from a wound which no

medicine can cure. Do not ask me any questions, because my case is a sad

one.’ Then he took from his bosom a portrait, which he contemplated,

saying:



    ‘When I began to worship the person of my love,

    My soul ascended to my lips and I lost my peace.

    A ray of love’s favour had alighted on my head,

    But, alas! I have lost my love!’



‘Dear father,’ he continued, ‘after we embarked in our boat we sailed

pleasantly for almost a week, when a contrary wind arose and we lost all

control over our vessel. Thus we were tossed about during forty days,

when the tempest ceased and we came in sight of land. We made haste to

go on shore, but we knew not to what country or nation it belonged. We

strolled about and came to a beautiful meadow luxuriant with vegetation,

where we hunted and thus advanced till we arrived at a cultivated

tract of land in which was a magnificent palace. On asking a man for

information regarding this country he answered: “You are in Kashmír, and

that palace is the abode of the daughter of Khoja Fayssur, the vazír of

Kashmír. She is wont to pass a few months here every year during the

season of flowers.” In one of my rambles I chanced to meet a lady of

exquisite beauty, and though I had fallen in love with her I did not dare

to address her, but sent her a fervent declaration of my love through

an old woman, requesting the favour of an interview. The reply which I

received was most discouraging; nevertheless I continued my rambles in

the grounds of the palace to enjoy the happiness of an occasional glance

at my idol. While I was thus standing one day, she dropped a paper from

above, and on opening it I found it contained her portrait. This was a

great joy to me, but it was soon turned to grief when I heard that the

lady had departed to the city. I could do nothing better than follow her

and endeavour to obtain a meeting. At last my passion became a mania, and

as I cared nothing for money affairs my attendants gradually deserted

me, so that I was at last left alone and fell into a state of the utmost

destitution. The dominant idea, however, still supported me that I should

yet be happy although at present a houseless beggar in the streets. One

night the police were about to seize me, but I ran off at the top of my

speed and sought refuge in a house, exclaiming: “Is there anyone here who

possesses kindness enough to save a man from the whirlpool of misery?” A

person opened the door and admitted me, saying: “Rest yourself here this

night, and trust in the mercy of God.” I was tired and reclined against

the wall, when suddenly I heard the tones of a harp and of a woman’s

voice in the adjoining apartment, and my curiosity prompted me to look

through an aperture at the scene. I beheld a húrí-like maiden playing

on a harp and warbling like a nightingale. The amorous melody and the

tones of the instrument produced such an enervating effect on me that

I could no longer stand, and falling on the floor, which was of weak

construction, it gave way and I was precipitated with it on the master

of the house, who was sitting in the room below, and he was killed on

the spot. The girl who had been singing rose up and cried: “A robber has

killed my master!” This soon brought all the neighbours into the house:

they instantly seized and bound me, and gave me so many blows that my

whole body was a mass of bruises. Then I was dragged before the Amír, who

ordered me to be taken to prison. It chanced that the jailer was a man

who had formerly been in my service, and he burst into tears on seeing

me in such a condition. When I had informed him of my reason for coming

to Kashmír and of the unhappy accident, he said: “Fear nothing—you are

safe.” He dressed me in other clothes and sent me out to a friend of his

own; while he put my garments on the corpse of a man who had died that

day and been buried in the cemetery. When the police came in the morning

to take me before the Amír to be beheaded, they were disappointed, and

reported that the culprit had been so severely beaten on being captured

that he had died during the night. The Amír remarked: “If the man was

innocent, the guilt of his death cannot be attached to me,” to which

the chief of the police rejoined: “That is true; but the people had no

right to kill the man. This affair ought not to be lightly regarded,

for those who beat him are guilty of murder.” The Amír then ordered him

to carefully investigate the whole affair. Accordingly the chief of

the police assembled all the inhabitants of that quarter of the town,

intending to fine each one of them in a sum of money, and having caused

the corpse to be brought before him, he said: “Ye impudent fellows, how

many kings or governments are in this city?” They replied: “One.” He

continued: “If there be but one king here, why have you taken justice in

your own hand and killed this man?” The people asked in amazement: “Whom

have we killed?” “This man,” said he, “who was captured on suspicion of

being a robber and whom you have ill-treated so as to cause his death.”

But when the people looked at the dead man they declared: “This is not

the robber whom we seized and beat. He was a young man of fair complexion

and having black hair; of strong make and healthy appearance. This is

the body of a man who was of middle age and sickly; we know not who has

killed him.” Quoth the superintendent: “There is no use in denying the

matter,” and he called for the instruments of torture for the purpose

of eliciting a confession; when one of the bystanders, having examined

the features of the corpse, suddenly cried out: “This is my father,

Khoja Fays, the gladiator, who not long since performed before the Amír

of Kabúl, and returning home, drank some arrack, which gave him the

colic, so that he was obliged to take to his bed. He was visited by some

friends, who advised him to send for Ratyl the glazier, who is so famed

for his skill that he excels all the physicians of the age. I brought

him to the bedside of my father, and he prescribed something which was

of no avail: my father died, and we buried him.” Here the superintendent

exclaimed: “You stupid fellow, who asked for your testimony?” But the

man would not submit to be brow-beaten, and said: “See what our chief

of police has come to! For the sake of gain he takes believers who have

died out of their graves! I shall at once bring the doctor, the muezzin,

the grave-digger, and the mullah. To-morrow we shall bring the affair

before the Amír, and you, my friends, will be my witnesses. Come with

me.” A number of persons followed him, which vexed the superintendent,

who said to those that still remained: “Do not be deceived by the

ravings of that fool; for I shall not let you escape without a fine.”

At these words another section of the crowd became excited and cried:

“The superintendent is in league with a pack of scoundrels whom he sends

out in the night to rob people, and gets his share of the plunder. When

any robbers are caught he allows them to escape, and in their stead he

substitutes disinterred corpses. Is there no king in this place? Is

it not enough that one of us was killed, and now we are to pay a fine

besides?” Just then the son of the dead man returned with his witnesses,

all of whom accused the superintendent, who, however, was supported by

his own officers and another crowd of armed men; so that presently both

parties came to blows, blood was shed, and several men were killed and

wounded. When the Amír heard that the superintendent was the cause of

the disturbance, he was displeased, and his enemies so worked on the

mind of the Amír that the superintendent was ordered to be hanged and

the jailer who had saved my life was installed in his place. One day

after these occurrences I perceived a multitude of people assembled in

the streets and asked the cause of my friend, the new chief of police.

His answer was: “To-day the daughter of the vazír has died, and all this

popular excitement is on that account.” This news upset all my hopes

and I at once quitted my friend’s house and journeyed till I came to the

sea-shore where I found some men embarking for the country of the Franks;

I accompanied them, and finally arrived here.’



“When my son had ended his recital,” continued the king, “he sighed

heavily and added: ‘Beloved father, as a dutiful son I should have obeyed

and never left you, and thus I should not have fallen into the misery I

endure. I beseech you to sweep away my transgressions with the besom of

kindness, and to wash away the filth of my sins with the limpid stream

of pardon.’ Having uttered these words he expired. My grief for him

can never be appeased, and the edifice from which I came out weeping

is his tomb. As I have now no son, I often wonder which of my enemies

will succeed to my kingdom when I am no more. You are, I am sure, a

man of noble blood and good disposition. May I request you to acquaint

me with your affairs?” Kasharkasha most willingly complied, and when

he had concluded, the king spoke as follows: “I am prosperous in all

things and respected by friend and foe. But I have passed the meridian

of life, and purpose devoting the remainder of it to the duties I owe

to my Creator. And though I have meditated about and sought for some

one who might take upon himself a portion of my royal affairs and be a

companion of my solitude, I have found none so worthy as yourself.” As

Kasharkasha was ardently wishing for such a high station, he joyfully

replied: “May the beautiful leaves of the king’s book of life never be

scattered as long as the world-illuming sun moves in the firmament! I am

ready to obey your commands.” Accordingly the Amír assembled the grandees

of his kingdom and spake to them thus: “I inform you that this royal

prince, Kasharkasha, who has dwelt for some time in this city, is by me

appointed to be my successor, as I have no heir. Therefore I desire every

one who loves and obeys me to obey him likewise.” All the vazírs and

grandees drew the finger of acquiescence over the eyes of affirmation,

and the Amír dressed the prince in the costly robe of a viceroy and said

to him: “Dear friend, I have seven vazírs, yet I trust the direction of

all important affairs to Khoja Bihrúz, whose sincere friendship I have

tried on the touchstone of experience and never discovered a flaw in

his noble character. Therefore, though you are endowed with the innate

sagacity of noble personages, as you are not familiar with the laws

and customs of this country, I recommend you never to act without his

advice, in order that the affairs of our kingdom may prosper.” Then the

Jalyák divorced the bride of royalty, married her to Kasharkasha, and

retired to a corner of repose.[37] Kasharkasha, who had been so greatly

favoured by his good luck, without any efforts on his own part, sat

very joyfully on the throne of dignity and power, when, by the decree

of Providence, the Jalyák was removed from this terrestrial abode; and

as the desire of self-aggrandisement, coupled with unlimited dominion,

destroys contentment and begets an inordinate longing for greater power,

Kasharkasha indulged in ambitious schemes and resolved to conquer some of

the neighbouring kingdoms. On this project he consulted all his vazírs,

who readily approved of it, and even still more inflamed his ambition.

When the turn of Bihrúz came he said: “May the ready-money of prosperity

be always present in the treasury of the hopes of the king, and may the

joyful season of perpetual spring always gladden his heart! This is not

the time for attack, but rather for defence. Many potentates of the

country of the Franks have attempted to conquer this land; they came

with countless hosts, but were all repulsed by the Jalyák, whose fame is

yet remembered among them: soon, however, they will learn of the change

which has taken place, and your majesty will have enough to do in warding

off their attacks.” Kasharkasha paid no attention to this warning, and,

confiding in the approbation of all the other vazírs, he marched to Ráml,

which is a country belonging to the Franks, and when he arrived there he

halted, and despatched the following letter to Futtál Sháh, the king of

Ráml:



“The title-ornament of this epistle is the name of that Sovereign of the

volume of whose world-adorning book of omnipotence of existence of all

creatures is but one dot. Secondly, as all nations of men are connected

by the sameness of their species, and as it is incumbent upon the mighty

to protect the feeble; and if they treat their subjects well they will

reap blessings; therefore we send you our kind salutations, and inform

you that as it is our intention to hunt in these regions, and as you

would be unable to endure the brightness of our countenance, even as a

bat cannot look at the sun, and we fear that if you were to behold a part

of our army and warlike preparations, bodily and mental diseases might

befall you;—we advise you to surrender the keys of your fortress to the

bearer of this letter, on pain of incurring our displeasure.”



Futtál Sháh read the letter and returned his answer as follows: “We were

astonished at the folly and presumption of your missive, and defy you

to do your worst.” After despatching these lines the king hastened out

with his forces to attack Kasharkasha, who had in the meanwhile received

information from his spies that in his rear another king of the Frank

country was in ambush. He was considering how to act with one enemy in

front and another in his rear when the countless hosts of Futtál Sháh

came in sight, and there was no option but to await the issue. The enemy

advanced, attacked Kasharkasha, and the battle raged fiercely, for

both armies fought with great bravery; at last, however, Futtál Sháh

prevailed and Kasharkasha fled. In the morning he was a king, and in the

evening a beggar, fleeing from his pursuers. On the second day his horse

was so exhausted that he was obliged to walk on foot until he arrived

at a spring, where having quenched his thirst he lay down and slept. A

shepherd who had been searching for a lost sheep happened to come to the

spot, and seeing a young man in costly garments stretched at full length,

his covetousness induced him to throw a stone, which, however, missed

the intended victim. Kasharkasha jumped up, and seeing a man of helpless

appearance he asked: “Who are you?” The man replied: “I am a shepherd.

Who are you yourself? and what right have you at the spring where I daily

water the sheep of the king? Your inauspicious presence here has caused

the water to become muddy. All my sheep are scattered over the desert,

and how shall I answer for them to the king?” So saying, he suddenly

leapt on Kasharkasha, divested him of his fine clothes and left him his

own rags in exchange; then tying both the hands and feet of the prince,

he went his way.



After Futtál Sháh had won the battle, captured the army of his foe, and

plundered his treasury, he could find no trace of Kasharkasha; so he

sent off a number of men in search of him, some of whom arrived at the

spring, and discovering a man there with his hands and feet tied, asked

him who he was. Kasharkasha guessed they were servants of Futtál Sháh

who had come to look for him, and replied: “I am a shepherd, and came

here with my flock, when a young man, from whose forehead the marks of

royalty radiated, approached and asked me for a sheep, but I said they

all belonged to the king and I was not at liberty to dispose of any of

them. Upon this he became so incensed that he tied my hands and feet and

then walked off with a sheep. Since you have arrived here so opportunely,

I request you to liberate me from my bonds.” The men believed that he had

given them information about Kasharkasha, so they loosed him, and giving

him some food, hastened off in search of the fugitive. For this lucky

escape Kasharkasha thanked the Most High, and speeding to a mountain not

far from the spring, he found there refuge in a cave.



Meanwhile the emissaries of Futtál Sháh were scouring the plain and at

length caught sight of the shepherd while he was trying to catch the

horse of Kasharkasha. They said to each other: “We must not allow him

to get at the horse;” and when the shepherd perceived that they meant

to seize him he thought that they were the servants of Kasharkasha who

had come in pursuit of him, so he cried out: “My good friends, I have

committed an error. I hope you will pardon my transgression;” and he

began to undress himself. But they replied: “Kasharkasha, we are not

such fools as to let you go if you give us your clothes. We have been in

quest of you for the last three or four days and have taken no rest. Your

garments alone cannot reward our pains, and Futtál Sháh will require an

account of you; so come along with us.” Quoth the shepherd: “The affair

between your master and me has only taken place to-day; why should you be

seeking me these three or four days?” The pursuers said to one another:

“He has lost his kingdom and become crazy. We must convey him at once to

our king.” On hearing these words the shepherd wished to make use of the

sword of Kasharkasha, but being too awkward to do so, he threw it on the

ground and wielded his own staff in such a manner as to kill one of his

captors, when the others closed round him, tied his hands, and set him on

a horse, saying: “Kasharkasha, do not struggle now that the boat of your

prosperity has become a wreck and is sunk into the ocean of misfortune,

for it will be of no use.” Quoth the shepherd: “I swear by the souls of

Pír Siah Posh, Baják, Baba Ali Mest, and Mezar Mongal, that I had no idea

he was a king. My covetousness induced me to rob him of his clothes; I

hope you will pardon my incivility.” “You simulate folly,” they replied.

“Do you not remember that you wrote a letter to the king, and after

marching with so large an army against him do you not know that he is

a sovereign? You say that you have robbed him of his clothes; but these

words are very silly, considering that you were of elegant speech and

great intellect, and that you sat on a royal throne.” “You are talking

book-words,” said the shepherd: “I have never learned to read—what do I

know about letters and armies? I have done no farther harm than taken

his clothes. Besides, it is not usual for kings to come into the desert

alone and on foot. As it is, he might have met with a worse man than

myself, who would have killed him. I beseech you, for God’s sake, take

the clothes and let me go; because there is no one to take care of my

sheep, and if anything happen to them I shall have to atone for it by the

loss of all that I possess.” The men now looked at each other and smiled.

They then said: “Kasharkasha, if you have gone mad on account of the loss

of your kingdom it is no wonder, but it is a marvel that you are still

alive.” Quoth the shepherd: “Why have you changed my name? I am called

Kallam ed-Dín Ahmed and you hail me always by the name of Kasharkasha.

Perhaps you mean to sell me?” While they were thus going along, talking

and laughing, they came to a small village, some of the inhabitants of

which recognised the shepherd and asked him: “Where have you got these

fine clothes? Who are these men? Why have they tied your hands?” He said:

“I have robbed a man of these clothes, and these men have caught me and

are taking me to the king. I am willing to abandon the clothes but they

will not abandon me. I beseech you, by the favour of Pír Muhammed Jendah

Poosh, to give them anything they ask for my freedom, and I shall repay

you in goats.” Several of the headmen of the village now stepped forward

and addressed the king’s messengers: “Good friends, Kallam ed-Dín Ahmed

confesses his fault, and he has acted wrongly. But of what use would it

be to take him before the king? We have agreed to prepare a good roast

for you if you will let him go.” But they laughed and said: “This is

Kasharkasha, the king of Tytmyran, who succeeded the Jalyák, and having

wantonly attacked our sovereign was put to flight. The king has sent a

thousand men in pursuit of him, and has promised to confer dignity and

wealth on his captor. We have searched for him without resting for more

than three days, and it is not likely that we shall now let him go free.

All his speeches come from a disordered mind.” Hearing this the villagers

were astonished and silenced.



The messengers of Futtál Sháh proceeded to the city, and on their arrival

the rumour soon spread that they had taken Kasharkasha. The shepherd was

brought into the presence of the king, and the splendour of the court so

dazzled him that he lost his speech, and the king thus addressed him:

“You fool, do sovereigns and high personages indite such letters? Now

shall I ignominiously kill you, as a warning to all presumptuous and

foolish persons.” When the shepherd heard this sentence he was roused,

and exclaimed: “O king, I swear, by the soul of Baba Nasym Sermest, that

I made that very day a vow of repentance to go on pilgrimage to the tomb

of Baba Jany and never again to commit such an act. Indeed the clothes

are present and at hand. I possess several ewes big with young which I

shall give you if you set me free. I have the sheep of one hundred men

under my charge, and were any accident to befal them all my friends

and relatives would be unable to make compensation on my account,” and

he wept bitterly. Futtál Sháh asked in astonishment: “How does this

reply agree with our question?” Upon this all the assembly smiled, and

a merchant present, who had been at Tytmyran and knew the person of

Kasharkasha, kissed the floor of civility, and said: “O king, this is not

Kasharkasha. He is a man of handsome appearance and fair speech; this

is an ignorant boor.” Hereupon the king first questioned the shepherd

closely and then his captors, who stated their case, after which he

declared: “Both parties are right; Kasharkasha was at the spring and

has purposely misled you. At present there is no use of making further

efforts, because he has gained time to go wherever he pleased.” Then he

gave the shepherd five thousand dirhams and dismissed him.



Soon after Kasharkasha had concealed himself in the mountain cave he

was driven out of it by hunger, and descending into the plain wandered

from town to town, scratching the wound of the loss of his kingdom and

of the treasure of prosperity with the nails of regret and sorrow,

and keeping it fresh with the salt of repentance, until he arrived in

Turkey. There it occurred to him one day that his father had told him,

in case his good fortune should desert him, to visit the merchant Khoja

Sadullah, who would aid him. So he proceeded to Baghdád and found the

house of the merchant, who was a very kind-hearted man, and happened at

the time to be going on a visit to the Khalíf, with whom he stood in high

favour. On seeing Kasharkasha he concluded from his mean attire that he

was a mendicant and ordered one of his attendants to give him alms, on

receiving which the prince burst into tears. When Khoja Sadullah asked

him why he wept, he produced his father’s signet, which when the Khoja

examined, “This ring,” said he, “belongs to King Farídún of Fars. I gave

it to him; but how came it into your possession?” Kasharkasha replied:

“He is my father. The desire to travel has separated me from him, and

the instability of fortune has reduced me to this pitiable state.” Khoja

Sadullah warmly embraced and welcomed him, saying: “Forget all your

troubles and be comforted; because you will again become lucky, and this

unpropitious condition will depart from the horoscope of your felicity.

All men are subject to reverses of fortune, but the end is frequently

very happy. My life and property are at your service.” Then he sent the

prince to the bath, provided him with a costly wardrobe, assigned to him

a number of apartments fit for a royal personage, and appointed fifty

slaves to wait on him, all of whom he ordered to obey and try to please

him. Thus Fortune again smiled on Kasharkasha and he spent his days in

comfort and felicity.



One day he was walking on the roof of the house and chanced to look into

the haram of the Khoja, having mistaken it for that of another dwelling.

The wife of the Khoja was in the open court-yard when his eye alighted on

the countenance of that heart-ravishing beauty, which so captivated him

that his person became more attenuated every day. He kept the matter to

himself, but one of his attendants reported it to the Khoja, who seemed

to pay no attention, but nevertheless went to his wife and said to her:

“Darling of my soul, I have a request to make to you, but on condition

that you swear to comply with it.” The lady took the required oath, and

the Khoja continued: “I divorce you.” She asked: “Of what fault has the

bud sprouted in the rose-grove of my imagination? And what crime have I

committed to deserve your abhorrence and to be separated from you?” Quoth

the Khoja: “God forbid that I should have experienced from you anything

save kindness and love; but I have been compelled to part with you.”



The Khoja, having thus divorced his wife, went to Kasharkasha and spoke

to him as follows: “I have been made aware of your condition, and your

wish shall be gratified in a few days. The woman whom you have seen is

the foster-sister of Farrukhzád the merchant. Her husband died a few

days ago, and her time of mourning is not yet over. Her brother, my most

intimate friend, is in Basra, and I have sent a man to him to sue for her

hand in your behalf—be of good cheer.” Kasharkasha was highly pleased,

and the Khoja amused him until the time required by the law was expired.

Then he sent for the Kází, and Kasharkasha was married to the lady in due

form. In the evening the Khoja led his former wife to the apartments of

the prince; and, when she beheld the unparalleled beauty and comeliness

of her new husband, she whispered to the Khoja: “Although you have

divorced me, I thank God that I am to be the spouse of this youth.” When

the Khoja had taken his leave, the prince asked the lady: “What did you

just now whisper to the Khoja?” She replied: “Young man, I was the wife

of the Khoja and we lived together very happily, but he has without any

cause divorced me and married me to you; so I said to him, when I beheld

you, and he had no longer any power over me: ‘Although you have divorced

me without cause, I am delighted to be the wife of this young man, who

seems to be a great deal better than yourself.’” As soon as Kasharkasha

learned that she had been the wife of the Khoja he drew the hand of

refusal over the breast of his desires and said:



    “To overcome one’s own lust is victory;

    To master one’s own passion is bravery indeed.



God forbid that I should touch this woman, for I consider her unlawful to

me.” So he slept that night alone, and in the morning apologised to her,

saying: “I was somewhat indisposed and unable to keep your company. Pray

have patience for a few days till I recover fully.”



In this manner some days passed, when the prince, conversing with the

Khoja about his own country, said to him: “It is now a long time since

I left my dear father, and though I have in your company and by your

kind services forgotten all my misfortunes, I nevertheless feel a very

great desire to rejoin him.” Therefore the Khoja loaded twenty strings

of camels with costly goods and sent them under the care of fifty

trustworthy slaves with Kasharkasha. Taking affectionate leave of his

benefactor and promising always most gratefully to remember his great

kindness, the prince departed on the road to Fars. When he arrived in

the vicinity of the capital he sent the glad tidings to his father, who

hastened to meet him. They entered the city together, and King Farídún

was so rejoiced at the happy event that he opened his treasury and

distributed much money among the people. After some time he abdicated the

government in favour of his beloved son, and died, leaving him his sole

heir and successor.



In the meantime Kasharkasha’s kind-hearted benefactor suffered a reverse

of fortune. One day Sadullah was informed that an agent whom he had

despatched to Hindústán was returned, but had been shipwrecked and lost

everything. The Khoja piously observed: “He from whose favour all that

is in this world depends is able to make good this loss.” But a week

later news reached him that another of his agents had been plundered by

robbers. Soon after this second calamity the Khalíf of Baghdád died, and

was succeeded by Mutassim,[38] who had long nourished ill-will against

the Khoja, therefore he confiscated all the merchant’s property. Khoja

Sadullah, now reduced to absolute poverty, determined to go to Fars

and take refuge with Kasharkasha. He contrived to collect a sum of

money among the merchants for the expenses of his journey, and quitting

Baghdád proceeded as far as Tabríz, where he fell sick and spent all

his little store of money. At last he recovered his health, but being

unable to proceed on his journey he resolved to apply to the Amír for

some assistance. During the preceding night a robbery had been committed

in the Amír’s treasury, and a number of suspected persons were brought

to the palace, among whom Sadullah unwittingly took his place, and was

along with them committed to prison to await the trial. They were all

kept in confinement for several months, and tortured daily to draw from

them acknowledgment of their guilt, until at length the real thieves

were discovered in another quarter and the suspected persons were all

discharged.



With a broken heart Sadullah resumed his journey to Fars, and chanced to

arrive at the royal palace at the time when Kasharkasha was holding a

levee and receiving petitions from his subjects. He entered the hall of

audience and made his obeisance, but, as Kasharkasha did not recognise

him in his wretched plight, Sadullah’s salutation was not returned.

After trying in vain to attract the notice of the king, Sadullah stepped

a little apart from the crowd and thus addressed Kasharkasha: “O King,

why does your highness disdain to look at me? I am Khoja Sadullah, the

merchant, of Baghdád, who was always devoted to your family. But now

fortune has turned its face from me, and I am come to seek refuge at your

court.” The king turned to one of the attendants and said: “Give one

hundred of the government sheep in charge of this man, and give him also

two loaves every day.” Then he said to Sadullah: “My good friend, we have

appointed you to be one of our shepherds; take good care of your flock.”

Khoja Sadullah thought this proceeding very strange, and said to himself:

“What meanness is this on the part of the king, to appoint me to be a

shepherd! However, though I have occupied a high station, I must obey

and perform the duties of a shepherd till something better turns up.” So

he took a staff, a sling, a bag, and a dog, and went every day with the

other shepherds to pasture his flock, and soon learned the business. But

an epidemic broke out which carried off daily several of his sheep until

every one had perished. Then thought Sadullah: “Since my entire flock

has died, it seems that I am not even fit to be a shepherd.” One day the

king observed the Khoja approaching with a great load on his back, and

asked him: “How are the sheep?” Quoth Sadullah: “May the flock of the

king’s health and comfort be always on the increase and remain unscathed

by the touch of the wolf of misfortune, and abide under the protection of

the Shepherd of divine favour! Thanks to my unlucky destiny, an epidemic

has carried off all the sheep, and I have brought their brands.” The

king smiled and said: “Give him another hundred sheep.” These, however,

also died, and likewise a third hundred, so that the Khoja was ashamed

to show his face. But the fourth flock entrusted to him became more

plump every day; no evil befell them; all the ewes threw twin lambs; and

when the king next called for the Khoja he made his appearance with a

number of sprightly and nimble lambs, and a quantity of butter, cheese,

and milk. The king said to him: “O Khoja, what do you now think of your

sheep?” He answered: “May the game of prosperity and the fawn of life

remain within the grasp of the brave lion of the king’s happiness, as

long as the flock of stars browse in the meadow of the sky, and as long

as the sun continues to travel in the firmament! Thanks be to the Most

High, by the blessing of the king’s good fortune, the contrary wind of my

ill-luck has become appeased, the lamp of success has been kindled, the

sheep of the king are all safe and sound, and my disgrace is wiped off.”

At these words the king rose from his place, fell on the Khoja’s neck,

and exclaimed: “Dear friend, your fate had taken such a mischievous turn

that had I entrusted you with my kingdom you would have lost it, and it

was prudent to wait till your luck changed. It was against my will that I

kept you in so mean an occupation until that calamity withdrew its foot

from the circle of your destiny. But now the obscurity of misfortune has

disappeared and the light of prosperity illumines the speculum of your

hopes. Do whatever you please; you are welcome to govern my kingdom.”

So saying, he seated the Khoja on the throne of intimacy, overwhelmed

him every moment with renewed kindness, and said to him: “I have a

foster-sister seated within the curtains of innocence and modesty; if you

marry her you will oblige me greatly.” The Khoja consented, and was for

the second time espoused to his own wife. When night set in the lady was

brought to the Khoja, who recognised her with no little astonishment,

exclaiming: “My love, I meet you again!” Said the lady: “Khoja, the

prince learnt the first night the true circumstances and has never

touched me, or even seen my face till the moment when he surrendered me

back to you.” Kasharkasha made the Khoja his vazír, and they all lived

happily together for many years until they at last quaffed the beverage

of death, left this rewardless abode, and departed to the mansions of

eternal joy.



       *       *       *       *       *



When Khayrandísh had concluded this story he said: “Nassar, I have

related this narrative to impress on your mind that self-conceit and

presumptuousness are very great obstacles to happiness. Had Prince

Kasharkasha followed the advice of his minister Bihrúz when he succeeded

to the kingdom of Tytmyran, and not attacked Futtál Shah, his dominion

would have been permanent, and the autumnal blasts of misfortune would

not have injured the rose-garden of his comfort and happiness:



    You will be happy in both worlds,

    If you moderate your desires.”





CONTINUATION OF THE HISTORY OF NASSAR.



After the usual three days of hospitality had passed and Khayrandísh had

imparted his counsels to Nassar, he brought forth the deposit entrusted

to him by Nassar’s father, and handing it to him, said: “Almost twenty

years have elapsed since your father gave this casket into my charge, but

I know not what it contains; if you have no objection we will see what is

in it.” Nassar at once opened the packet and took out a mirror cut out of

a piece of emerald and surrounded with a number of other precious stones.

In the centre of the mirror was a peacock whose eyes were constantly

moving and whose feathers changed their colours every moment; and the

workmanship was so exquisite and delicate that Khayrandísh and Nassar

were perfectly amazed, while the former exclaimed: “My dear friend, no

sovereign has ever possessed so admirable an object, and it is probable

that you will not be able to sell it to a private individual except at a

price far below its real value. Therefore you should present it to some

mighty king, and it may thus become to you the cause of great prosperity.

Show it to no one during your journey, lest it should excite the cupidity

of some person.” Nassar most willingly promised to follow his friend’s

advice, and received from him a ring with the injunction that should any

calamity befall him he must go to Aleppo and show it to a pious recluse

called Abú Jurjás, who would do his utmost to help him. After taking

leave of Khayrandísh he departed in the company of some men who were

travelling to Egypt, where they all arrived in safety. Nassar happened to

meet the king of that country, who was on a hunting excursion with a very

numerous retinue. He saluted the monarch very humbly and presented to

him the mirror as a gift, which the king accepted, and on his return to

the capital invested Nassar with a robe of honour[39] in full court, and

also took into his hand the mirror, the workmanship of which he greatly

admired, as did also his courtiers. Then the king said to Nassar: “You

appear to be well educated. Pray, what is your greatest accomplishment?”

He replied: “Your majesty’s humble servant is skilled in several arts,

but especially in archery.” After this the king gave him in charge of one

of his officials, who took him to his house and showed him much attention.



During the night the official felt very unwell, and there being no

servant at hand, he went to a cupboard and taking out an apple began to

peel it; and while thus engaged some plaster fell down from the ceiling,

which caused him to run out of the room in great fear, and stumbling

in the dark he fell on the knife which he still held in his hand, and

received from it a wound in consequence of which he expired on the

spot. When this accident became known, the eunuchs, the servants, and

the inmates of the haram were so confused that they accused each other

of having murdered their master, and at last they came to blows, and

several of them were wounded and killed. In the morning the unfortunate

occurrence was reported to the king, who was much grieved at the loss of

a most faithful minister, and appointed his son to succeed him in the

service.



Some time afterwards Nassar ventured to make his appearance at court,

and was respectfully standing in the line of persons near the throne,

when the monarch observed him and exclaimed: “Young man, we have heard of

your archery but have never seen it. Now we wish to have a proof of it.”

Nassar desired that a ring should be tied to a hair and suspended at a

distance of seventy paces. Then he shot an arrow through the ring without

moving it, and repeated the feat thirty-nine times more.[40] The king and

his courtiers were astonished at his skill, while the spectators uttered

shouts of approbation; and the king was considering how to reward him

when an explosion of gunpowder took place in the manufactory close by,

which destroyed the building and killed more than a thousand persons; but

Nassar escaped unhurt. This catastrophe so occupied the mind of the king

that he rose up in a melancholy mood, forgot Nassar, and retired to his

private apartments.



In course of time the king resumed his customary duties and amusements,

and it happened one day while engaged in the chase that an eagle flew

near him, when he called out: “Is there any one who can strike that eagle

while he is flying?” Nassar immediately responded to the call, and the

eagle fell to the ground pierced through by his arrow. The king wished to

reward him on the spot, but the arrow, after passing through the eagle’s

body, having struck the eye of the king’s horse it became restive, began

to gallop, and a helter-skelter race followed, but the horse could not

be stopped, until, one of its legs going into a hole in the ground, it

threw its rider, and dragged him hanging by one foot in the stirrup,

into a very rapid stream. When the attendants beheld their sovereign

in such great peril they hastened to save him, which they did, but not

before he had swallowed a great quantity of water, was wounded, and more

dead than alive, and about five hundred men had been drowned. One of the

king’s servants said to Nassar: “Your archery is very unlucky, since for

every arrow that you shoot hundreds of men lose their lives.” The king

was taken in a litter to the palace, and only recovered his health after

forty days’ medical treatment.



When the bodies of the king’s followers were taken out of the water the

other attendants pierced the heart of Nassar with the shafts of irony

and disapprobation, and he concluded that, as he had been so many times

thwarted in his purpose of deserving the favour of the king, it would be

advisable for him to quit the scene of his exploits lest his life should

be endangered. He was yet undecided where to go when he perceived on

the opposite bank of the river a village, which he resolved to visit.

The current was very rapid, but he entered the water saying to himself:

“Let happen what will, my cup of bitterness is already brimful.” As he

was crossing, the water became so deep that his horse began to swim,

and the violence of the flood soon swept Nassar from its back. He was

a good swimmer, but his arms and accoutrements were heavy, so that he

was obliged to throw away everything, and landed on the other side in a

state of nudity. He waited for the evening, being ashamed thus to enter

the village, and when it was dark he roamed about the streets until

he found a mosque, in a corner of which he concealed himself, naked,

starving, and tired as he was. It happened that a party of thieves had

plundered the house of the village headman, and about midnight brought

their booty into the mosque for the purpose of dividing it. They kindled

lights and made some noise, and Nassar, awaking from sleep and dazzled

by the lights, fancied it was morning and that the people had come to

prayer. As he had a good voice, he said to himself: “Great blessings and

rewards are in store for those who call the faithful to prayer, and if I

do so, possibly the Most High may open the portals of abundance to my

destiny.” And so he ascended to the minaret and pronounced the usual form

of invocation, which when the robbers heard they weened that the morning

had already dawned while they had been so deeply absorbed in dividing

their plunder as to forget the lapse of time. Therefore they made haste

to finish the division, then extinguished the lights, and with their

bundles on their backs were flying from the mosque when they were met by

Nassar, who stopped them and said: “O ye bouquet-binders in the garden

of piety and devotion, now is the opportune time to seek the benefits

obtainable in the house of God, and this is the place for kindling the

lamp of prayer and supplication! Whither are you going? Have you not

heard that any person coming to the mosque for the performance of his

matutinal duty must remain there till sunrise?” The thieves took him for

the muezzin,[41] who wished to detain them till he could hand them over

to justice, and, one of them having given him a box on the ear, they all

ran off at the top of their speed. Nassar, now certain that they could

not be of the pious, ran after the thieves, and being an excellent boxer

and swordsman, attacked them boldly, and snatching the weapon from one of

them he struck about him to such purpose that he killed one and wounded

several of the others, upon which they abandoned their plunder and fled.



Nassar was at a loss what to do with the booty and the corpse, fearing

lest he should be held responsible for all that had occurred, and thus

fall into fresh danger. Some people, who lived near the mosque, having

been aroused from their slumbers by the untimely call from the minaret,

said one to another: “Surely that fellow has gone mad, since he calls to

morning prayer before midnight is past;” and when they heard the noise

of the scuffle they imagined that some vagabonds of the village, whom

Satan had seduced to adopt the doctrines of the Súfís, were holding their

nocturnal assembly in the mosque.[42] So they hastened thither to expel

the intruders; but when they entered they saw only Nassar, who was saying

to himself: “I wonder from what poor fellow the thieves have stolen this

property.” When the folk beheld a man standing alone and muttering to

himself they at once concluded he was a súfí in one of his ecstacies, who

had thus stripped himself naked; and as they walked according to the

commandments of the Most High and in conformity with the holy law of the

Prophet, and hated all súfís, innovators, and enthusiasts, they burst

into reproaches against them, crying: “O ye transgressors of the divine

commands and destroyers of the ordinances of the Refuge of Prophecy;[43]

who degrade the house of God to a brothel, by the wiles of Satan, who

has made you his own, and is your guide in irreligious proceedings! What

breach is this that you wish to make in Islám?” Nassar mistook them for

the thieves who had come back to recover their plunder and wished to

deceive him with such speeches, so he said: “You rogues, I shall not be

circumvented by your tricks,” and seizing the sword which was still near

him he wounded one of them and put the others to flight. Then he tied a

rope to the neck of the wounded man and said: “Come, tell the truth. From

what house have you stolen these goods?” But the man, knowing nothing of

the robbers, believed him to be a súfí in a trance, speaking nonsense,

and replied: “O you wretched vagabond and fanatic and transgressor of the

divine commands! I know not what you say. Have I not come hither from my

house on account of the tumult which you made?”



Meanwhile the other villagers who had been driven away by Nassar went

to the officials and thus addressed them: “Is Islám no longer dominant

in this country, that hypocrites and infidels are allowed to enter the

mosque and desecrate it with their orgies? People who live near the

mosque hear every night the diabolical revellings of a pack of vagabonds.

Last night they again entered the mosque, and, contrary to law, shouted

the call to prayer in the middle of the night. They have even sorely

wounded one of the faithful, and we do not know what has become of him.”

The officials ordered a party of constables to accompany them and to

seize the law-breakers; and when they entered the mosque they found

Nassar still engaged in examining his prisoner, and mistaking them also

for the thieves he wounded one of them likewise. “Súfí,” they exclaimed,

“what impudence and wickedness is this? Do pious and virtuous men ever

fight and kill the servants of God in the mosque?” Quoth Nassar: “You

vile robbers! you cannot deceive me. I intend to slay you all this night,

to deserve the reward of God.” When they saw him speaking so boldly,

naked as he was, they said: “Look at the presumption of this súfí, to

behave in such a manner in the mosque!” By this time, the morning having

dawned, numbers of the people came to prayer, and Nassar fled, with the

sword in his hand, and wounded several persons who attempted to stop him.

But he ran so fast that no one was able to overtake him, and his pursuers

then returned to their homes. Soon afterwards, however, a company of

súfís came into the village and were at once accused of having committed

the robbery; a general tumult ensued and many men were slain or wounded.

Ultimately the affair came before the king of Egypt, who caused the súfís

to be punished and fined, although they were entirely innocent of the

crime laid to their charge.



Nassar now wandered from town to town, pursued by misfortunes. One day

the king of Egypt asked his courtiers what had become of him, but they

could only reply that in consequence of the various calamities that

followed his archery feat he had disappeared. His majesty observed that

for these accidents Nassar was in no way accountable, because they had

all occurred by the decree of Fate, and he despatched messengers in

every direction to search for him. Nassar was at last discovered in a

village, in a very destitute and miserable condition. He was carried to

the capital, and before bringing him into the king’s presence it was

necessary to take him to the bath, after which his majesty received

him with great kindness and inquired of him: “Are you skilled in any

other things besides archery?” Nassar bowed his head and replied: “I am

acquainted with military tactics, mathematics, commerce, mineralogy,

boxing, fencing, and also with cooking.”[44] Quoth the king: “All

these accomplishments adorn the character of a man, none of them,

however, can equal your skill in archery; but when you acquired it your

destiny was unpropitious and the moon was evidently in the mansion of

the Scorpion.[45] It will therefore be proper for you to abstain from

shooting arrows and to practice other arts until the lucky hour comes

when these calamities have disappeared from your horoscope. This day I

wish to give a banquet, and you must exhibit your skill in boxing; and as

you tell me that you also possess a knowledge of the art of cooking, I

give you leave to prepare any dishes you please, for it is long since I

was able to relish any kind of food.”



Accordingly Nassar made various savoury dishes, and when he had finished

his work the king commanded him to show his skill in boxing until the

dinner hour. Nassar said that he was ready to box and wrestle with two

hundred men who excelled in these arts, and when they were produced he

very easily vanquished them one after another.[46] The king gave orders

that more men should be brought, but to his astonishment none could be

found willing to encounter such a formidable antagonist. But recollecting

that he possessed a Circassian slave named Fírúz Bakht, lately presented

to him by the Sultan of Turkey, who was skilled in wrestling, he ordered

him to attack Nassar. The slave caught Nassar about the loins so forcibly

that his own hands bled, but he was unable to move him a hair’s breadth

from the spot where he stood. To be brief, they wrestled long and

skilfully, the Circassian trying two hundred different tricks without

effect. At last, however, Nassar turned the game and lifted Fírúz Bakht

from the ground with as much ease as if he were a child; but the slave so

firmly grasped a pillar of the shed in which the sport was taking place

that Nassar could not pull him from it; and making a final effort he

tugged so hard that along with Fírúz Bakht he wrenched the pillar away,

which killed the slave and about twenty of the spectators by a portion of

the roof falling down on them after its support had been thus withdrawn.

The king, with all his attendants, fled from the place in alarm, and the

banquet, which was to be one of joy, became one of mourning.



Although the king was greatly affected by this sad accident he said to

his courtiers: “As this event only took place by the immutable decree

of Fate, I can in no way blame the young stranger; and if I lose my

life together with my kingdom, a thousand accidents such as this will

not influence me against him.” The courtiers tried to comfort the king,

but as he was very melancholy their efforts were fruitless. When the

table-decker made his appearance and announced that the dinner prepared

by Nassar was ready to be served up, the king said: “Though we have at

present no inclination to eat anything, yet, as the dinner is prepared,

cause it to be brought in.” When, however, the king had tasted some of

the dishes he found them to be more delicious than aught he had ever

eaten before; and, thus seduced, he ate so heartily that he became ill,

and having but lately recovered from sickness he was unable to digest the

food, and only recovered after a long course of medicine.



But that magnanimous and kind-hearted monarch, albeit he had never been

sick before he had come in contact with Nassar, would ascribe neither his

indisposition nor the other calamities to that circumstance, but to the

decrees of Fate, and bore him no ill-will. He invested Nassar with a robe

of honour, made him various presents, and was about to appoint him to

a high office, when one of the vazírs, who had by his natural sagacity

guessed the king’s purpose, said that, although his majesty was of a

liberal and kind disposition and Nassar a deserving person, yet it would

be inadvisable to bestow on him any great favours at the present time,

because experience had abundantly shown that the withering blasts of his

unfortunate destiny had not yet ceased to blow, and only mischief would

be the result. Therefore, he went on to say, it would be better to give

him a considerable sum of money and dismiss him, with the injunction to

remain in some other place until his destiny had changed for the better,

when he might return to the service of the king, whose favours, if now

bestowed, would be thrown away. He continued: “It is also certain that

in the same way as all efforts to aid persons who are predestined to be

unfortunate are in vain, so also the devotional and religious wishes of

silly though well-meaning men are of little avail to them.” The king

asked: “How is that?” Upon which the vazír related the





_Story of the Foolish Hermit_.



At the time of the rising of the Sun of Prophecy, the glance of an

angel of the Court of Unity[47] chanced to alight on the hermitage of

an ascetic, whom he beheld sedulously engaged in all the duties of

religion; and he was so pleased that he was curious to know what should

be the reward of all this piety. Then the allocution reached him from

the Lord of Omniscience: “Angel, pray that this mystery be revealed to

thee.” Accordingly the angel made his supplication and was informed that

the reward of the ascetic should be very inconsiderable; whereat he was

so astonished that he said: “O God! how can this be the reward of a whole

life of piety? I consider it as insufficient for a single day. What

wisdom is concealed in this matter?” Then he heard this order: “Visit

him in human form, and learn the state of the case.” The angel obeyed,

and, after being by the power of the Most High transformed into a man,

he visited the hermit and became so intimate with him that he lived for

several days in his cell, which being situated in a pleasant and fertile

region, with abundance of springs and flowers, the angel said one day

to the hermit: “Arise, let us enjoy a walk in this delightful place.”

Accordingly they went out together, and when they entered a paradise-like

meadow, and beheld the freshness of the parti-coloured vegetation,

they praised the Almighty. Said the angel: “Hermit, be grateful to God

for having adorned the neighbourhood of your cell like a paradise with

springs and flowers and crowned every blade of grass with the diadem

of loveliness and fertility.” The ascetic replied: “My dear brother, I

always enjoy the pleasantness of this locality because it abounds in

grass and water, so that many animals might be fattened here. But I am

constantly burning with grief that God has no ass whom I might comfort

and feed in this place, and might for his sake acquire a higher merit in

the next world.” When the angel was thus made aware of the littleness

of the hermit’s mind, by this silly wish, he left him, and resuming

his proper form the divine allocution reached him: “Have you seen the

intelligence and wisdom of the hermit?”[48]



       *       *       *       *       *



The vazír continued: “A sovereign must also use very great care in the

choice of his ministers, otherwise he may fare like the king of Basra,

who had a very ambitious and wicked vazír.” Quoth the king of Egypt: “How

was that?” and the minister began to relate the





_Story of the Treacherous Vazír_.



In ancient times there was a king of Basra who was very kind-hearted and

liberal. He had a good vazír, worthy of his confidence, who assiduously

attended to all his duties and was very faithful; but death overtook him,

and the king, who was for some time undecided what to do, ultimately

appointed in his place a man of great ambition, who secretly entertained

a design of usurping the throne; and being in want of an accomplice he

bribed a eunuch to introduce him to one of the ladies of the haram. But

when he had become accustomed to the pleasures which awaited him in the

fond embraces of love, he thought that it would be dangerous to carry out

his purpose very hastily, so he drew the lady into his secret, and now

neglected the eunuch who had assisted him thus far and who consequently

made a vow to avenge himself on the ungrateful vazír.



One night the king had a very unpleasant dream: a scorpion crawled

from his sleeve into his shoe, and when he attempted to take it out it

bit him. In the morning the sultan related his dream to some of his

courtiers, and as they could offer no satisfactory explanation of it he

said: “You are only groping in the dark, and we must wait till a skilful

interpreter can be found.”



The eunuch, who had heard the attendants conversing on the subject and

thought this a favourable opportunity to revenge himself on the vazír,

said that he was able to interpret the dream; and on being brought before

the king spake as follows: “The interpretation is, that one of your

majesty’s highest officials has withdrawn his head from the circle of

obedience: by means of a eunuch he has gained admission into the royal

haram, which he visits every night, and carries on a love-intrigue with

one of the ladies; and moreover he entertains the most wicked design,

at a fitting opportunity, of depriving your majesty of life (which God

forbid!) and usurping the throne himself;—and there is a high degree of

probability that the official is no other than the vazír.” On hearing

this the king was wroth, but concealed his feelings, so that he should

not compromise his dignity, and exclaimed: “Base wretch! there is nothing

to warrant such a suspicion, unless, perhaps, some spite which you

harbour against the vazír, and in consequence of which you malign him;”

and he ordered the eunuch to be instantly put to death. But the king,

though inclined to give some credit to the eunuch’s story, could hardly

believe that a man such as his vazír, whom he had raised from a low

position and made a sharer in the government of the kingdom, could be so

ungrateful as to covet his throne and purpose depriving him of life.



During the past night the vazír had as usual visited his paramour, and

they had then agreed to murder the king on the following night, but they

wot not of what was in store for them. The king, who had been rendered

uneasy by the revelation of the eunuch, entered his private apartments

in the evening, and then secretly despatched a confidential servant to

see whether the vazír was in his own house. When the messenger returned

with the information that the vazír was not at home, the king had no

longer any doubts, and knew that if the vazír had entered the haram

he must have done so from the water-side. He quietly summoned all the

watchmen and said to them: “Last night I dreamt that thieves entered the

haram, and I am very uneasy; therefore I command you to kill any person

either entering or issuing from it.” After the sentries had returned to

their posts the king himself went into the haram, and, accompanied by

some trusty eunuchs, rushed into the room where he supposed the vazír

and the lady slept, and there discovering another guilty couple he slew

them, and the former escaped.[49] While a eunuch ran after the vazír and

his paramour, the king went out to see whether all the sentries were at

their posts; and as soon as they perceived him they stabbed him to death,

according to his own order. Meanwhile the eunuch pursued the vazír, who

also went out by the water-side, was also mistaken in the darkness for

a robber, and met the same fate as his master. Then the other eunuchs

who were in search of the vazír, and were not aware of the king’s order,

also issued by the same door and were all killed by the guards; so that

in the morning when the dead bodies were counted they amounted to forty.

On discovering the body of the king the people greatly deplored the

misfortune, and, considering that he with all his attendants had been

killed in consequence of a conspiracy, they laid hold of the watchmen and

put them to death, after which the kingdom fell into a state of anarchy.



       *       *       *       *       *



The vazír added that this narrative exemplified how one individual may

become the cause of the death of many, and that from the misfortunes

which followed Nassar’s exploits it plainly appeared that he was also one

of the number of those ill-fated wretches, and that the misadventures of

Shoayb of Baghdád likewise supported his statement. Quoth the king: “How

is that?” whereupon the vazír related the





_Story of the Unlucky Shoayb_.



In days of yore there dwelt in the city of Baghdád a rich man called

Shoayb, but various calamities befell him so that he became extremely

poor and quitted the country, and his ill-luck followed him wheresoever

he went, and in spite of all his diligence and skill he was unable to

succeed in any affair which he undertook. One day he approached a river

and discovered three men engaged in fishing, and as he had never seen

this occupation exercised he looked on with much interest. The three

fishermen, seeing that he was in a very destitute condition, easily

induced him to enter their service, on condition that they should give

him as his wages one fish for breakfast and another for supper.[50] After

he had been a few days thus employed the river began to decrease in

volume and also the fish in number, so that they caught only a tenth of

the quantity which they used to get formerly. At last they could catch

only one fish in a whole day, and were reduced to such straits that they

resolved to go in quest of some other kind of work.



One day the sultan happened to pass that way and perceived to his

great astonishment that there was scarcely any water in the river. He

questioned the fishermen, who stated their case, when the vazír of the

king, who was a very intelligent man, asked them: “Has any stranger come

among you during these days and been taken into partnership with you?”

They pointed to Shoayb and said: “This man is a stranger among us.” Then

Shoayb was examined, and he recounted his former wealthy condition and

his present destitution in such appropriate and eloquent language that

the king and his vazír, as well as all the attendants, were greatly

amazed, and when he had ended his narrative the vazír said: “To stay any

longer in this place is contrary to the dictates of prudence!” So they

all returned to the city, and on their way the king asked the vazír:

“Why did you make those inquiries and then become so disconcerted by the

answers you received that, by your declaration that it would be unsafe

to stay any longer there, you almost forced us away from the place?”

The vazír saluted the king and thus replied: “Most gracious sovereign,

when your majesty asked for the cause of the river’s decrease I thought

of three causes: First, that perhaps these fishermen had for several

days forgotten God and the Prophet, and that therefore such a calamity

had befallen them; because it is certain that when men give way to evil

habits, the genii and demons are permitted to injure them and to destroy

their prospects even as the withering blasts of autumn deprive the roses

of their freshness and bloom. Secondly, that perchance these fishermen

had in some way injured either your majesty or the inhabitants of this

district, for which they were thus punished. Thirdly, that possibly a

stranger had come amongst these fishermen, and that on account of the

misfortunes which follow his heels they as his partners are compelled to

participate in them, and therefore I questioned that stranger regarding

his history; when I discovered that he had brought his ill-luck with him,

in consequence of which the river itself has nearly dried up.” Quoth the

king: “I have full confidence in your intelligence and experience, but I

put no faith in your theories of good and ill-luck, because both are mere

expressions and depend entirely upon circumstances. Thus, for instance,

if a man be intelligent and honest, and manage his affairs properly, he

will certainly have good luck, but a careless fool must naturally meet

with ill luck:



    Every man is master of his own fortune

      According to his character and strength of mind:[51]



    One, as Lukman,[52] wise and opportune;

      The other as crazy Majnún[53] you will find.

    The bulbul[54] among roses dwells,

      The owl in ruins dark abides;

    But intellect every ascent tells,

      And the fool his own folly chides.”



The vazír responded: “What your majesty says is but the sequel of my

assertion, because the intellectual qualities of every individual depend

upon his horoscope and the propitious or unpropitious positions of the

stars, and according to these a man is either lucky or unlucky. Moreover,

we frequently see that intelligent and good men do not prosper, while

fools and rogues succeed in all their undertakings.”[55] Quoth the

king: “This I believe, because sometimes an intelligent man has not that

practical turn required in the management of affairs and is thereby

unable to overcome difficulties.”[56] To this the vazír rejoined: “What

argument can your majesty adduce in favour of the prosperous condition of

Hindús, Jews, Christians, and infidels, who are more powerful than the

professors of Islám, most of whom are in need of the aid of those nations

addicted to error?” To this question the king could give no satisfactory

answer, but he nevertheless said: “No matter what arguments you may bring

forward, I shall not believe your assertion.” The conversation was still

turning on this subject when they entered the city, and the king said:

“Let this matter stand over until I can prove that I am right;” to which

the vazír replied: “If your majesty can prove the contrary of what I have

stated, I am willing that my blood be spilled and lapped by the dogs in

the streets.”



Next morning the king secretly called one of his confidential servants,

and handing him a bag of gold said: “Go without the knowledge of any one

to the river, take the young stranger to whom we spoke yesterday apart,

and give him this gold. Bid him leave the company of the fishermen, go

to the bath, put on good clothes, and wait the day after to-morrow on

horseback in such a place until farther orders.” The attendant set out

with the gold, and on coming up to the fishermen he was perplexed, as he

could not distinguish which of them was the stranger. At last he called

one of the fishermen aside and asked: “Which is the young stranger with

whom the vazír conversed yesterday?” Quoth the man: “Why do you want

him?” “I have some business with him,” answered the king’s messenger.

The fisherman, who was a cunning fellow, suspected that the vazír had

sent the stranger something, so he assumed a doleful aspect and said

in a melancholy voice: “I am that poor stranger,” on which the servant

took out the gold secretly, and giving it to the man, at the same time

delivered the king’s message; and the fisherman did not return to his

companions, but immediately ran to the city, where he purchased a fleet

horse and fled in the direction of Tabríz.



On the appointed day the king took the vazír towards the river, and

looked in all directions for Shoayb, whom they could not discover, until,

reaching the bank, they saw him with two of the fishermen. The king at

once surmised that the absence of the third was to be ascribed to the

mistake of his servant; accordingly he said nothing to his vazír, but

when he returned to the palace he reprimanded the careless attendant and

sent him to prison. Then he took another bag of gold and delivered it to

an intelligent servant with the same directions as before. He went to

the river, and calling Shoayb privately apart, asked him: “Are you the

stranger among the fishermen?” But Shoayb, suspecting that this man might

be the precursor of a caravan of fresh misfortunes, answered: “I am one

of the fishermen.” Then said the man: “Go and send the young stranger to

me.” Shoayb went and told one of the fishermen that a servant of the king

wanted to see him, and when he came the man handed him the bag of gold,

without asking any questions, delivered the king’s orders, and departed.

The fisherman was at first astonished at his good luck, but afterwards

said to himself: “Gifts such as this are merely tokens of the munificence

of sovereigns. Probably when the king was here and saw our distress the

Most High inspired him with pity for us.” So he concealed the bag at a

distance from Shoayb and his companion; but the latter, having watched

all his movements and observed that a servant of the king had given him

something which he was now hiding, resolved to make away with him and

possess the treasure. Accordingly, having sent Shoayb to the city on some

errand, he took the net and said to his comrade: “Come, let us throw the

net, for I have just seen a very large fish.” His unsuspecting partner

complied, and when he drew near, the intending murderer pushed him into

the river, but his own hand becoming entangled in the net he also fell

into the water and both perished.



It happened that the fisherman who intended to flee to Tabríz was not

well acquainted with the road, and after travelling all day lay down to

sleep. When he awoke he found that his horse had strayed away and went in

pursuit of it; but having proceeded some distance he recollected that he

had left the bag of gold, which was under his head while he slept, and

returned for it, but in his haste he missed the spot, not only for an

hour or two but he was utterly unable to discover it after three days’

search, during which period he had nothing to eat or drink. He found

his way back to the capital in a state of great exhaustion, and had no

alternative but to betake himself again to his old business on the river.

When he arrived there he beheld Shoayb alone and asked him where his two

comrades had gone. Shoayb told him that they had sent him four days ago

to the town on an errand, and when he returned they were absent and had

not yet made their appearance.



Meanwhile the king again made an excursion with the vazír, and when they

reached the bank of the river they saw Shoayb with another man. Therefore

the king concluded that the gold had been again received by the wrong

person and he became very angry. On his return to the palace he punished

the servant, and said to himself: “I am surely singular among kings,

not to possess a man able to execute this business properly.” Then he

despatched a third attendant to the river, telling him that he would

see there two men, one of whom belonged to the country, the other was a

stranger, and to be sure he brought the latter with him. When the servant

came up to the two men he asked: “Which of you two is the stranger?”

The fisherman, having obtained the second bag of gold on pretence of

being the stranger and believing that the king was conferring gifts on

such persons and that the servant had brought more money, replied: “I

am the stranger who has no share in the comforts of this world. What

do you want with me?” Quoth the servant: “The king wishes to see you.”

But when the fisherman heard the king mentioned, reflecting that he had

received the bag of gold on the previous occasion without having a right

to it, he began to tremble; he had no excuse, however, and followed the

messenger. When he was brought into the royal presence the king at once

saw that he was not the man he had sought to benefit and resolved to

punish him. “Are you,” demanded he, “the stranger who lives with the

fishermen?” The man replied: “Yes.” Then quoth the king: “As you are the

fellow in consequence of whose unpropitious advent the water of the river

has become diminished and the fish in it few in number, you are worthy

of death.” On seeing his joyous expectations come to such an end the

fisherman began to moan and said: “May it please your majesty, I am not

that stranger. But as this world is not our permanent abode, and we are

all sojourners in it, I said that I am a stranger.” But the king’s wrath

was not appeased by the man’s supplications, and he was immediately made

to drink of the beverage of death. Thus on account of the misfortunes of

Shoayb all the three fishermen lost their lives.



Shoayb, who had remained by the river, now reflected that, as the

king’s messengers had several times been there and always asked for the

stranger, and as his companions had disappeared, it would not be safe for

him to continue longer in that place, especially as it appeared probable

that the king bore enmity to strangers; and therefore he betook himself

to the city, so that when the king again sent a messenger he could find

no one, and his majesty was once more disappointed in his well-meant

efforts to assist the poor stranger.



One night the king was walking about the city in disguise,[57]

accompanied by some of his courtiers, when he saw a crowd in the bazár

assembled round a man whose hands were tied, and addressing him in this

strain: “In consequence of the unpropitious sight of your unhallowed

person, that misfortune has befallen Khoja Naym. He was so rich that

every morning and evening one thousand men partook of the banquet of his

liberality, and by your ill luck he was overwhelmed by such a calamity.”

When the king looked well at the man he recognised Shoayb as the object

of the reproaches and vituperation of the crowd. So he went aside and

said to his attendants: “Save this man in any way you can from the grasp

of this mob; for he is the individual we are in search of.” The courtiers

mixed with the crowd and asked: “Who is this man? And what has he done to

Khoja Naym?” The people answered: “Yesterday morning the Khoja was riding

out to meet the caravan from Egypt, with the intention of purchasing some

goods, and as soon as his eye caught sight of this fellow he immediately

fell down from his horse and expired.[58] We have been some time in

search of him, and now that we have found him we are going to retaliate

on him the death of Khoja Naym.” The royal attendants said: “Such events

take place by the decrees of Providence. You persecute this guiltless man

in vain, for according to the law no crime can be brought home to him.

You ought rather to give alms and solace the poor, to please God, and

for the pardon of the Khoja. Indeed, should any evil happen to this man

you will have to account for it to the king.” But the people of Khoja

Naym would not listen to reason, and pulled the man on one side while the

courtiers, who were not recognised in the darkness, pulled him on the

other side, and the quarrel resulted in a fight, during which several

persons were wounded and one of the courtiers was killed. Amidst the

confusion, however, Shoayb contrived to make his escape.



When the people of Khoja Naym had fled and the crowd was dispersed, the

king walked away with his attendants, who carried the body of the slain

courtier along with them. On their way to the palace they were met by

the police, who mistook them for robbers carrying a dead comrade, and

attempted to arrest them. The king and his men drew their swords and

resisted, so that a fight again ensued, which ended in the whole party

being captured after several persons had been killed and wounded on both

sides. On taking their prisoners to the guard-house the police discovered

that they had arrested their own king and became so terrified that they

took to their heels. The king arrived at the palace, with his courtiers,

so fatigued and wounded that he was unable to rise from his couch for

several days. Nevertheless he issued orders to fine, imprison, and punish

the people of Khoja Naym, who had during the night attacked certain

persons in the bazár and had even killed one of their number.



On the following evening the king ordered two intimate friends to come to

his private apartments, when he spoke to them as follows: “Although at

present all appearances are in favour of the vazír’s assertion, yet I am

unwilling to concede that it is true. You must go again in search of that

stranger, and possibly we may at last get hold of him.” But the courtiers

replied: “It is not advisable that your majesty should take any more

trouble in this matter, lest it should result in greater misfortunes.”

“I see,” said the king, “that I cannot entrust this service to any one,

and therefore I must go myself.” Accordingly, when evening was somewhat

advanced, he set out with a number of attendants, and while strolling

through the bazárs, he chanced to look into the public bath-house, and

there he saw Shoayb sitting in earnest conversation with the fireman, and

sent a servant to call him out. When Shoayb had come into the street his

majesty said to him: “I am in great favour with the king. I had a brother

resembling you in stature and features who was also in the royal service,

and just when he had been appointed to a high office an accident hastened

him to the next world. No one, however, knows of this but myself; and as

I am very desirous that the position to which he was promoted should be

enjoyed by a member of my family, I propose to substitute you in his

stead, and present you to the king; and after you receive his favours

you will be sent to your post in the country, whereby the dark night of

your reverses will be changed to the bright morning of happiness.” Shoayb

joyfully agreed to this proposal, and the king, handing a purse to an

attendant, said to him: “Take charge of this man; to-morrow take him to

the bath, and purchase with this gold whatever is required. I shall also

send the necessary costume and on the following day present him to his

majesty.”



As Shoayb and the royal servant were proceeding along together, the

latter asked Shoayb to carry the gold for a short while, and just then

one of the king’s elephants, that had become mad and broken loose,

rushing through the street overthrew the servant and trampled him to

death. This so frightened Shoayb that he would not remain in the place,

and having no other acquaintance, he returned to the fireman of the

bath-house. When Shoayb entered, the man perceived the bag in his hand,

and fancied he had brought some delicious food; but as Shoayb showed

no signs of wishing him to partake of it, he resolved to possess it

by a stratagem. He kindled some dry wood over the bath, and, suddenly

affecting to be in great distress, exclaimed: “Woe is me! the roof has

caught fire, and as the bath-house is close to the bazár it will also

become a prey to the flames!” Then handing a bucket to Shoayb, he said:

“Brother, fill this bucket at the river and come back quickly that we

may extinguish the fire, from which the whole world is in danger!”

Shoayb took the bucket and went out; but as soon as he had disappeared

the cupidity of the fireman would not allow him first to extinguish the

flames, but impelled him to examine the bag, and when to his astonishment

he found it full of gold he exclaimed joyfully: “This is indeed great

luck!” But while he was concealing the treasure in an aperture in the

wall the flames increased so much that they enveloped the whole roof,

and some sparks falling on the heaps of fuel around the building kindled

them, and attracted the people of the quarter to the scene, where they

found the covetous man burnt to a cinder. Meanwhile the conflagration

increased, being fanned by the wind, and it was only put out with great

labour, and after much property was destroyed and many persons lost their

lives.



While Shoayb was going to fetch water he lost his way, and met a party

of thieves carrying on their backs the plunder which they had just taken

from a house. As soon as they caught sight of him they compelled him also

to carry a burden, and proceeded to the town-wall, which they scaled by

throwing up a rope-ladder, and in the same manner they descended on the

other side. They walked on until they reached a cemetery, where they

deposited their booty, and then proposed to kill Shoayb, but one of

the gang, more merciful than his comrades, said: “Friends, is it not

enough that we steal, but we must also commit murder? This man can do

us no harm.” Others, however, replied: “A head which is cut off cannot

speak;” and the discussion was becoming very warm when one of the king’s

spies chanced to pass by, and hearing voices issuing from the vault, he

listened and soon ascertained what was going on. Then he rode quickly

to the town and brought a number of armed men, with whom he rushed into

the vault, and killed all the thieves. After they had examined the

plunder and were beginning to remove it, they discovered in a corner a

man crouching down, with his hands tied, and asked him: “Who are you?”

Shoayb replied that he was a poor stranger who had been robbed and was

just about to be killed when they arrived. The men bade him take of the

plunder whatever belonged to him, and he was not slow in appropriating

a Kurán[59] with several other articles and walked away. As soon as

the morning dawned and the city gates were opened Shoayb entered; but

as the householder who had been robbed immediately gave notice to the

authorities, they were on the alert; and he himself happening to be

near the gate by which Shoayb entered at once recognised his own Kurán

and the other things the unlucky man was carrying. The servants of the

householder caught hold of him and said: “Where have you got these

articles?” He replied: “They are my property.” Shoayb was, of course,

taken for a thief, and the servants tied his hands and were about to

bring him before the authorities, when the armed men who had slain the

robbers returned, after having secreted the plunder and thrown the bodies

into the river. When they found Shoayb in this difficulty, they knew that

if he were tortured he would make a confession and bring all of them into

trouble, and that they would not be credited with having taken their

plunder from the thieves but would be considered as robbers themselves,

and thus forfeit their lives. So they determined to liberate Shoayb,

and, assembling a great number of their friends, they demanded that the

innocent prisoner should be delivered to them. This was refused, and a

fight ensued which swelled to such dimensions that about a thousand men

were killed, and a rumour spread that an enemy had invaded the capital.

The king at once despatched a body of ten thousand men, with orders to

quell the tumult at any price, which they did, and brought a multitude

of prisoners, including Shoayb, into the presence of the king.



Now the vazír, when the king discussed the subject of Shoayb’s

misfortunes with him, knew that his majesty would endeavour to disprove

his assertions, so he had appointed some men to watch occurrences day and

night, and to keep a record of every misfortune which should befall the

people on account of Shoayb. They performed their duties very faithfully,

and had by this time compiled a document of considerable length. And

when the king discovered Shoayb among the prisoners and the wounded who

had been brought before him, he inwardly acknowledged his error and

was convinced that the vazír was right. The first man whom he called

forth from the assembly was the owner of the stolen property, which

he identified in the hands of Shoayb of Baghdád, and many others bore

witness to the truth of his statement. Then quoth the king to Shoayb:

“I know that you are not a thief and a robber, and it is probable that

he who is not a thief is also not a liar. I therefore command you to

give a true account of this business.” The poor fellow in reply related

every circumstance from his going to fetch water till his falling among

thieves, and so on to the end. Then the king thus spake to the armed men

of his spy: “Cupidity spoils everything in this world. Had you simply

captured the thieves and brought them to me you would have deserved a

reward. But by taking their plunder you have become their accomplices

and the cause of so great confusion and slaughter. You are worthy of

death, but as you have slain the thieves I pardon you; at the same time

I command you to restore the goods to the owners and leave the city

together with Shoayb.” After the people had been dismissed the vazír

produced the document in which the calamities connected with Shoayb were

recorded, and it was found that within the space of twelve days one

thousand five hundred men had lost their lives, besides the injuries

suffered by those who had been wounded and had lost their property.





CONCLUSION OF THE HISTORY OF NASSAR.



Having thus ended his third example, the vazír added: “As this story

likewise clearly shows the truth of my assertion, your majesty would

do well to dismiss Nassar to a distant country until the rust of his

misfortunes is wiped off the mirror of his circumstances, when you may

safely receive him again into your royal favour.” The king of Egypt

approved of this advice, and ordered the vazír to give Nassar a thousand

dínars and send him away. The vazír immediately sent for Nassar and gave

him the money; he even apologised to Nassar, and desired him to return

after his fortune had become more propitious, when his majesty would

receive him most graciously, and reward him handsomely.



Nassar was very sad and knew not where to go, till he recollected that

Khayrandísh had given him a ring which he was to show at Aleppo to his

friend Abú Jurjás, if he should fall into any troubles and be in need

of assistance. So he set out for that city. On the way he came to a

delightful meadow, adorned with trees and flowers, and as he was fatigued

he lay down near a beautiful spring, and, placing the gold he had

received from the vazír under his head, soon fell asleep. Presently he

was awoke by a voice exclaiming: “Young man, this is a perilous place for

resting or sleeping in. Arise, and save your life!” He leaped up hastily

and fled. After a while he recollected that he had forgotten his gold,

but was afraid to return; and considering this also as a consequence of

his ill-luck he continued his journey.



When he arrived in the vicinity of the hermitage of Abú Jurjás, he beheld

it in a state of neatness and cleanliness. From its walls blessings and

felicities radiated; but he could find no trace of the hermit. After

looking all round, he perceived a man sleeping on a couch, and said to

himself: “This must be the hermit, who has probably spent the night in

devotion and is now sleeping.” Accordingly he waited till evening, but

the hermit did not move. Then thought Nassar: “Although it is uncivil to

awaken any one from sleep, yet as this man would be sorry to miss the

time for evening prayers I must disturb him.” He therefore went forward

and shook the hermit slightly, but still he did not move. He perceived a

slip of paper on the pillow which contained these words:



“Fortunate youth! on the bank of the river of life no tree grows which

is not blown down by the wind of Fate. In a vision I was informed that

you would come hither, but whilst I was alive I expected you in vain.

But since the goblet of my existence has become filled to-day, I could

not postpone my departure, and, bowing my head obediently to the summons

of the omnipotent Sovereign, I laid myself down on my death-bed. I

am perfectly aware of what you have come to seek. Dread nothing: all

your reverses will soon be turned to prosperity. Friend, I have three

injunctions to communicate to you: First, that you wash my corpse and

bury it in this place; secondly, that as soon as you have the means you

build a chapel here, so that whenever people see it they may remember

me, and their kind wishes may rejoice my soul, for nothing is more

useful to those who sleep on the pillow of death than the prayers of

the living for their pardon; and, thirdly, that every Friday[60] night

frankincense or other perfumes be burnt over my tomb, because wherever

that is done angels of mercy alight. On account of the hardships which

you have hitherto suffered, your fortune will henceforward be very great.

In the neighbourhood of this spot there is a spring called the Fountain

of Al-Kamyss, which was a place where Muslim fairies were wont to amuse

themselves, and therefore infidel genii have dried it up. You must during

the space of forty days[61] go to that place every day and pray God to

cause the water again to flow. As soon as by divine command the water

reappears, you must perform the sacred ablution of gratitude to the

Almighty, when all the filth of your misfortunes will be removed and the

fairies will everywhere shower happiness on your head.”



After Nassar had read the paper he washed and buried the body of the

hermit. Then he betook himself to the fountain and prayed during forty

days, at the end of which period the water again began to flow and fishes

appeared in it, by order of the Almighty, and each fish bore a jewel in

its ear and a ring in its mouth. The fishes exclaimed: “Praise be to

the Most High!” and saluted Nassar, who was very much astonished at the

spectacle. Then a white fish more beautiful than all the others raised

its head from the water, brought the purse of gold which Nassar had left

in the meadow when he was scared away by the warning voice, and said:

“Happy young man! this is your property. Be not amazed at the sight of

us, for, though we are now in the form of fishes, we are in reality

fairies, and live according to the ordinances of Islám; and for this

reason we usually assume the shape of fish, because they are the most

innocent of God’s creatures.[62] This fountain is our abode and place

of amusement. When the malevolent genii had, on account of their enmity

towards us, dried up this spring, we were compelled to wander about; but

now that, by the blessing of your advent, the water has again appeared,

we are engaged in praising God and in thanking you. Young man, in the

meadow where you slept near a fountain we warned you to depart, because

that region is the abode of a tremendous dragon which has destroyed

numberless people by its fiery breath, and no one has been able to kill

it. The astrologers have predicted that a stranger will destroy the

monster, and the king of the country, who has no offspring, has made

a vow that he will abdicate the throne in favour of that fortunate

stranger. We shall reward your good deed by killing the dragon and

bringing you a sign, whereby you shall obtain the bride of royalty and

gain every day a hundredfold more than your father Khoja Humáyún has

lost.”



Then the fairies brought forth various savoury dishes, of which they

invited him to eat, while they went and slew the dragon, after which

they vanished. But soon a great tempest and dust enveloped the whole

firmament in confusion and darkness; and when all the noise and turmoil

had passed away, the surface of the fountain became slightly agitated,

and the fishes again appeared, and placed the head of the dragon, which

was of monstrous size, on the brim of the spring. Then one of the fairy

fishes addressed Nassar, saying: “This dragon was sleeping in the shadow

of a mountain; we went with seventy thousand fairies to the spot where

the monster lay, and separating half of the mountain threw it on the

dragon, which immediately perished—its last agonies caused the tempest

and darkness. Although the service which we have thus done to you is

as nothing compared with the favour you have conferred upon us, yet as

every return, be it ever so slight, is acceptable, we have been happy to

serve you; and, please God, we shall hereafter consider it as our highest

pleasure to gratify every one of your wishes. And now you may depart to

the city.”



Nassar went away accordingly; and when the people saw the head of the

dragon they notified the event to the capital, from which immense crowds

issued, so that not less than twenty thousand persons met Nassar and

escorted him with great pomp into the city, the people constantly bowing

and thanking him for the great benefit he had conferred on them. Just

then the good king was on his deathbed, and, having no son, his ministers

did not know who should be his successor. But when they heard of Nassar’s

entrance into the city they instantly conveyed him before the dying king,

who was rejoiced to learn that the dragon was slain, kissed Nassar on

the forehead, offered his thanksgivings to the Most High, murmuring:

“If I must die, I have now no other wish.” Then he handed his diadem

and royal signet to Nassar, and said to the vazír: “He is indeed a good

servant who obeys his sovereign on his deathbed; therefore now let every

one who loves me pay his allegiance to Nassar.” With one accord the

ministers and others who were present did homage to Nassar and elevated

him to the throne of royalty.



When the king died Nassar began to govern. He fulfilled the last wishes

of the hermit. He sent messengers to Baghdád to bring his father Khoja

Humáyún with all his relatives, and on their arrival, with great ceremony

and pomp, the father rejoiced to meet his son like Jacob when he was

brought to Joseph. Nassar appointed his father to be his vazír and

bestowed high stations on all his kindred; he also wrote a letter to the

king of Egypt, which he sent with many gifts, informing him of the happy

turn his destiny had taken. Thus Nassar, although for some time in the

gripe of various misfortunes, became ultimately very happy and spent his

life in great comfort.









HISTORY OF FARRUKHRÚZ.









HISTORY OF FARRUKHRÚZ, THE FAVOURITE OF FORTUNE.[63]









CHAPTER I.



    HOW THREE BROTHERS SET OUT ON A TRADING JOURNEY—HOW THE

    YOUNGEST IS CRUELLY ABANDONED BY HIS ELDER BRETHREN—HOW HE

    MEETS WITH ROYAL FAVOUR.





In ancient times there lived in Kashmír a jeweller called Khoja Marján,

who was very lucky in all his dealings and amassed great wealth. He had

three sons, the two elder of whom were of a foolish and lazy disposition,

and one day the Khoja said to them: “According to the requirements of

this world, everyone must do something for his living. You may have

heard that at first I was only the servant of a jeweller, yet I have, by

dint of industry, overcome all obstacles, so that in this city there is

no person who is richer than myself. It would be a pity if you were, in

your folly, to trust in my opulence and engage in no occupation, because

in this way many who had the greatest expectations were disappointed

and reduced to misery. If any man, though he be rich, knows only how to

spend and never to gain, it is very probable that he will exhaust all his

resources. Therefore as our business is commerce, which is promoted by

trading in different places, I desire you to gain your livelihood in that

manner as long as I am alive, and for this purpose I shall give to each

of you some goods, and thus you may carry on business.”[64]



The name of the Khoja’s third son was Farrukhrúz; he was a great deal

more intelligent than his brothers and therefore loved his father more;

so, after the Khoja had delivered the promised goods to his two elder

sons, he privately handed to Farrukhrúz a small casket, saying: “My dear

son, the true touchstone of young men is travel, by which their ability

appears. Although none of you has yet made a journey, the results of

which might show your skill and intelligence, yet my paternal love

whispers to me that you are the worthiest of my sons. In this casket

there is a cock which skilful artisans have carved from a single ruby and

inserted inside of it various contrivances, so that it is such a great

curiosity that its like has not been seen in the world. Keep it secret

from your brothers, so that should you fall into trouble you may still

help yourself by presenting it as a gift to some king.”



The three brothers, having received each his portion of goods from

their father, began to journey to Irán, and arrived first at the city

of Herát, which was at that time governed with justice and equity. In

that delightful place the two elder sons of Khoja Marján spent all their

time in pleasure, but Farrukhrúz engaged himself in business. One day

he ventured to admonish his brothers, but they stretched forth the neck

of impudence and refused to listen to his advice. At last, however,

their dissipated ways reduced them to poverty, and such was their misery

that they purposed committing suicide. Farrukhrúz took pity on them and

gave them some of his own goods, saying: “Dear brothers, you have only

yourselves to blame for what has happened.” They soon squandered their

brother’s bounty, and when he requested them to continue the journey,

they replied that they had no resources at all and would not move from

that place. So Farrukhrúz was obliged to leave them and proceeded to the

city of Shíráz, where he traded for some time, gained much wealth, and

became acquainted with a most excellent man named Zayn al-Mofáherin, who

presented him with a ring when he was about to depart and said: “As men

are everywhere beset by dangers, especially in travelling, I give you

this ring, and in case you should fall into distress you must show it to

a friend of mine in Mosúl, whose name is Habíb, and he will aid you.”



Farrukhrúz then departed for Tabríz, where he opened a shop, and having

made very large profits he resolved to proceed to the country of the

Franks, and purchased various kinds of merchandise required in that part

of the world, which he placed on the backs of twenty strings of camels.

On reaching Baghdád he stopped there for some time on account of his

commercial transactions; and it happened one day, when he was walking

about the bazár as usual, that he remarked among the porters two men

exactly resembling his brothers, but they were so dirty and ragged, with

their hair and beards unkempt, that he was at first unwilling to approach

them, and they did not appear to recognise him. He ordered one of his

servants to call them aside, and when they came he burst into tears, and

they also wept and were ashamed to look in his face. He gave to each of

them a quantity of goods, saying: “My dear brothers, those that walk in

the streets of safety will never be assailed by the dust of trouble. You

may return home with the goods I have given you.” But they replied: “Why

should we separate from so kind and loving a brother? We wish to obey and

follow you wherever you go.”



In short, the three brothers left Baghdád together and travelled towards

the country of the Franks. But when the two ne’er-do-well brothers

discovered the wealth of Farrukhrúz the flames of envy and cupidity were

kindled in the oven of their hearts, and one said to the other: “What is

the use of such a life, that we should be subject to our younger brother?

We shall earn only shame in the sight of our father and everybody, and so

long as we live the stain of despondency and poverty will never disappear

from our characters, while he will always enjoy honour and respect. We

must in some way cause his death, so as to obtain possession of his

property, after which we may return home and say that a fatal mishap has

befallen him.” Thus did those two ungrateful men wipe from the tablets of

their minds, with the water of treachery and faithlessness, the benefits

they had received, and having agreed about the crime they watched for an

opportunity to perpetrate it.



On arriving in the vicinity of the Frank country they embarked in

a vessel, which carried a skiff, and one day the brothers said to

Farrukhrúz: “Come, let us all three get down into the boat, which is

quite empty, and we may rest ourselves better in it than in this ship.”

Farrukhrúz consented, and when they had all gone down into the skiff the

two seniors said it would be more comfortable to have some bedding, and

went back into the ship to fetch it, leaving Farrukhrúz in the little

boat, who presently perceived to his great consternation that it had been

cast loose and was gradually drifting away from the vessel. The sailors

noticed this occurrence when it was too late to recover their boat.

Farrukhrúz at once concluded that this had been done by his brothers,

but, considering that lamentation is of no avail, he thanked God that he

had nothing more to fear from his brothers, and trusting to the mercy

of the Most High, who is able to deliver us from all dangers, he fell

asleep. Nor did he indeed encounter the least peril, for on the third day

his skiff arrived safely on the coast of Yaman.[65]



Farrukhrúz went on shore, hoping to discover some inhabited place, when

the king of Yaman, who happened to be on a hunting excursion, came in

sight with a splendid cavalcade, so he drew near the prince, made his

obeisance, and spoke as follows: “Your majesty’s humble servant has

tasted of the bitterness of misfortune, and hope impels him to prostrate

himself at your feet.” The king stopped and looked at Farrukhrúz,

who took out the cock given to him by his father and presented it to

his majesty, who was greatly pleased with the gift. To all questions

Farrukhrúz returned very intelligent answers, and in a few days he so

won the affection of the king that he said to him: “I thank God for

having become acquainted with such a prudent and honest man as you are.

Speak your mind freely to me on all subjects.” Farrukhrúz replied: “May

the light of your majesty’s most happy government always remain shining

in the assembly of prosperity, and may it always be protected in the

lantern of divine favour from every wind of adversity! Your humble

servant desires only to behold the glory of your majesty; and, as he

has experienced reverses of fortune, he craves merely permission to

sojourn for a time under the protection of this government.” The king

readily agreed to his request, and assigned a lodging with the means of

subsistence to Farrukhrúz, who was assiduous in attending court, and

succeeded in ingratiating himself so well that he became one of the

favourites of the king, and was appointed to so high a station that the

other counsellors, secretaries, and great officials became such in name

only, because the authority of Farrukhrúz had in all matters become

paramount.









CHAPTER II.



    THE HERO’S QUEST OF A THRONE OF MARVELLOUS GEMS.





This elevation of a stranger to the highest post did not fail to excite

universal jealousy and envy, and all the courtiers sought an opportunity

of removing Farrukhrúz. On a certain occasion the king gave a great

banquet, at which the wonderful cock was exhibited, and when the repast

was over the king thus addressed his guests: “You have all seen the

world, but you have at no royal court beheld a curiosity such as this

which Farrukhrúz has presented to me.” The envious courtiers replied:

“That is true; but we conceive that if your majesty were to order a

throne to be constructed of white chrysolites, yellow emeralds, and red

diamonds, it would surpass anything ever possessed by any sovereign.”

Quoth the king, smiling: “You are wishing for an impossibility, because

I have never heard that there exist white chrysolites, yellow emeralds,

or red diamonds; but if so, they are probably so rare that sufficient

of them could not be obtained for a ring, not to speak of a throne.”

The courtiers rejoined: “Any affair that can possibly be accomplished

is open to the competition of skilful and experienced persons.” In this

strain they continued until they succeeded in exciting in the king a

desire to possess such a throne, so he asked them: “Who then can procure

a sufficient quantity of such precious stones with which to construct

a throne?” To this question they unanimously replied: “The business may

be accomplished by a very intelligent man, and we know of no other than

Farrukhrúz who is qualified to undertake it, seeing that he has already

brought a curiosity the like of which is not to be found in the world.”

But the king said that, as Farrukhrúz had become so useful to him, he

could not dispense with his presence. Farrukhrúz, however, rose from his

place and offered his services, promising to return within the space of

forty days.[66] So the king gave him the required leave of absence, and

he proceeded, according to the advice of Zayn al-Mofáherin, to Mosúl, in

search of the hermit Habíb, whom he found in a cave near that town.



The hermit was a devout old man, reposing himself in perfect innocence

and piety in the mansion of tranquillity and asceticism, with a mind free

from the shackles of animal passions, and engaged in humbly praising

and worshipping the Bestower of all gifts. Farrukhrúz made his salám,

presented the ring of Zayn al-Mofáherin, and was welcomed by the hermit,

who said: “I am glad to see you—I know the ring of my friend; and as it

has been during my whole life a pleasure to assist all true believers, I

request you to inform me of your wants.” Farrukhrúz explained his case,

after which the hermit continued: “Although no one has ever returned

disappointed from this place, I must inform you that your enemies have

contrived to send you in search of objects the attainment whereof they

conceived to be impossible, and indeed the affair is a very difficult

one. Let us however trust in God, who is able to help us.”



About sunset the hermit offered up the customary prayers, after which he

said to Farrukhrúz: “By divine inspiration I learn that in Syria there

is a mountain near which is a spot inhabited by genii and fairies, who

possess many of the precious stones you require. They are stored in the

treasury of their king, but no man has dared to approach the place since

the time of King Sulayman (on whom be blessings!). At present, however,

a son of the king of the fairies is suffering from lunacy, which greatly

distresses his father. All physicians who tried to cure him entirely

failed; but I shall teach you a prayer which will restore him to health,

and the king will very gratefully reward you.” Then the hermit taught

Farrukhrúz the prayer, and giving him a staff, said: “This staff is made

from the cocoa-nut tree of Ceylon, one of whose numerous properties

is that it conveys its owner safely through all dangers to the place

of its destination.[67] The various genii and sorcerers harbouring

enmity towards mankind assume different forms and infest the road, and

accomplish the ruin of many travellers. There is no doubt but they will

also lay snares for you, and should you be so foolish as to lose this

staff you will fall into troubles from which you may never escape.”



Farrukhrúz then took his leave of the hermit, started on his journey,

and arrived after several days within the dominions of the fairies,

entering a pleasant meadow adorned with beautiful flowers and rivulets.

The fragrant vegetation and salubrious air which he inhaled exhilarated

Farrukhrúz, and invited him to walk about in that delightful spot.

He soon perceived a group of beauteous fairies sitting around one of

their own sex, who seemed to be their queen, on seeing whom he was so

fascinated by her attractions that he stood still as if petrified, but

his heart palpitated violently. A fairy presently approached him, and

taking him by the hand drew him into the circle. He completely forgot

the admonitions of the hermit, and chatted with the fairy damsel very

pleasantly, till they all leapt up nimbly and taking him along with

him, walked till they came to a palace which the ladies entered, but

Farrukhrúz was turned away by the male attendants with these words: “This

is not a place where any stranger may freely go in and out.” Accordingly

he sat down in melancholy and expectation, and after a short space one

of those heart-ravishers issued forth to call him. Farrukhrúz quickly

arose to obey the joyful summons, but a gate-keeper met him half-way,

saying: “The laws of courtesy prohibit any one from entering the private

apartments of high personages armed; it would be highly improper for

you to pay your respects to the queen of this country with a staff in

your hand.” Then he took the staff from Farrukhrúz, who rushed in as if

intoxicated with the desire of beholding the object of his adoration.

When he entered, he found himself in a paradise-like place containing a

throne ornamented with innumerable gems, on which that beauty reposed

like the world-illuming sun, with all the attendant ladies seated around

her, conversing, playing on musical instruments, laughing, eating, and

drinking.



Farrukhrúz was rejoiced at beholding this scene, and flattered himself

that he might soon become more closely acquainted with the occupant

of the throne, considering himself as already happier than a thousand

kings of Yaman. Nor was he disappointed in his expectations; for the

charming queen addressed him in the most gratifying terms; dallied with

him amorously; and having asked for a goblet of wine she sipped some

of it, and handing it to him desired him to quaff the contents. But no

sooner had Farrukhrúz done so than he became transformed into a monkey,

with dugs full of milk, and several young monkeys tugging at them, in

the midst of a shoreless ocean, and floating on a piece of timber. He

looked in all directions, but perceived no land, and awaking, in his

bitter grief, from his sleep of carelessness, he recollected the advice

of Habíb the hermit and the loss of his staff. But his self-reproaches

availed him nothing, while the little monkeys pulled away at the teats

and were even manifesting their enmity; but the maternal kindness of a

monkey, with which he had been invested, prevented him from retaliating.

In this manner he spent several days without food, drink, sleep, or rest,

suffering from the burning heat of the sun, and imploring the mercy

of the Almighty to rescue him from this peril, till at last after the

expiration of seven days a ship came in sight, from which a beautiful

lady descended into a skiff with two attendants. The skiff was rowed

about the sea till it approached the piece of timber on which Farrukhrúz

was sitting, when he began to moan most pitifully after the manner of

monkeys, which attracted the attention of the lady and she said to her

attendants: “Unless I am greatly mistaken, I again behold an effect

of the wickedness of that God-forgetting fairy, who has changed this

poor wretch into a monkey.” Then she uttered a magic spell, upon which

Farrukhrúz sneezed and immediately recovered his human shape. The piece

of timber drew near the skiff, and as soon as Farrukhrúz stepped into it

he perceived he was in a garden with the beautiful lady and several other

persons, when he exclaimed: “Praise be to God! I experience wonderful

changes!” The lady took him by the hand, congratulated him on his

delivery, and said: “Be of good cheer. I have, by divine Providence, been

guided to this spot, and have thus been enabled to save you. Others have

fallen into the same snare like yourself and have lost their lives, while

you have come forth unscathed from the whirlpool of calamity.”



For a while the lady promenaded with Farrukhrúz, and then they proceeded

to a splendid mansion, wherein was a throne encrusted with jewels on

which she took her seat, and was waited upon by legions of attendants.

Presently most delicious food was brought to Farrukhrúz, who broke his

fast of seven days, and having satisfied his hunger and recovered his

strength he was obliged to relate his adventures. Then quoth the lady:

“Since cunning and hatred have brought so much trouble on your head,

perhaps kindness may now do somewhat to aid you. Know that the wicked

fairy who has injured you is my sister. Her name is Nafísa, and we are

both the daughters of King Núbahár, who reigned supreme over all the

fairies of this country; but after our father’s death my sister was for

some time led astray from the true faith by an infidel genie who got her

into his power, and even now she tries to injure Muslims as much as she

can.” Having thus spoken, she whispered to a fairy, who went away and

returned with the staff which the hermit Habíb had given to Farrukhrúz,

and of which the other fairies had deprived him. Farrukhrúz thanked the

queen, who then said: “I should be glad if you were to remain here and

live with me, but I wish not to detain you. Yet I beseech you to return,

because that comfort which you may enjoy here you will never find among

men and their follies. In the meanwhile, however, you may go in quest of

the precious stones you are in want of: the king whose son is subject

to fits of lunacy is my uncle, and he possesses a countless store of

the gems you require, but is in great distress on account of his son’s

malady.” Then she sent one of her courtiers with Farrukhrúz to inform her

uncle that he would cure the prince.



Farrukhrúz left the park with the fairy courtier, and at the gate there

was a box wherein he was requested to take his position and close his

eyes, and on opening them after a moment he perceived that he had

been transported into a royal palace, the like of which, for beauty,

magnificence, and decoration, no human eye had ever beheld. There he saw

a monarch seated on a throne with great pomp and surrounded by numerous

courtiers, all of whom were in deep mourning. He was presented by his

guide to the king, who said to him: “Young man, considering that human

beings excel all other earthly creatures in beneficence and happiness,

I welcome your advent. I am informed that you have come to cure my

son, and if you do so I shall feel myself indebted to you as long as

I live.” Farrukhrúz replied: “Exalted sovereign, although every cure

depends in the first place upon the mercy of the Most High, your humble

servant possesses a supplication in which he has the fullest confidence,

and hopes by means of it to effect a cure.” The king then gave orders

to produce the prince, who was accordingly brought forth in bonds and

chains. He wept by turns like a vernal cloud and smiled like a fresh

rose; he had also fits of a violent character. As soon as Farrukhrúz cast

his eyes upon the afflicted prince he opened the portals of eloquence

with the name of God and recited the prayer which he had learned of

Habíb the hermit. When he had completed the invocation the prince

recovered the perfect use of his intellect and was cured; he sneezed a

few times, thanked God, and asked: “For what cause have I been put in

chains?” At these words the king manifested his joy, kissed the prince,

and delivered him from his chains, and all the fairies rejoiced. Then

quoth the sultan to Farrukhrúz: “I cannot express to you my gratitude

in words, nor am I able to reward you. May God requite you!” Farrukhrúz

opened the lips of civility, saying: “I am delighted with the fortunate

result of my prayer,” and preferred his request for the precious stones,

when the king immediately caused immense quantities of white chrysolites,

yellow emeralds, and red diamonds to be brought from the treasury, and

ordered a skilful genie to construct a throne with the gems, which was

instantly done. When it was evening a genie called Tahmatán, who moved

with the celerity of lightning, departed with the throne to the kingdom

of Yaman, accompanied by Farrukhrúz, to whom the king of the fairies said

affectionately: “Take this ring, which has been kept for many ages in the

treasury of my ancestors, and the possession of which is connected with

numerous blessings; keep it always on your finger, and it will preserve

you from all misfortunes, except when you are in a state of ceremonial

uncleanness, because the Ineffable Name is written on it;[68] and if

you keep it with you when in such a condition you will become subject to

fits of epilepsy and lunacy, and it will return to our treasury, nor will

any mortal be able to cure you except ourselves. Whenever any difficulty

occurs to you, turn the ring on the forefinger of your right hand, and

ask aid of the victorious spirit of Sulayman (on whom be blessing!), when

instantly a genie will make his appearance, to whom you may entrust any

service and he will accomplish it. But you must not let it be seen by

wicked demons, who are the sworn enemies of mankind, lest they should

deprive you of this talisman.” Farrukhrúz thanked the king and was taken

up by Tahmatán with the throne at midnight and set down in Yaman before

daybreak.



When Farrukhrúz had departed in quest of the wonderful gems, the envious

vazírs and secretaries were delighted, believing that he would never

return. But the king was grieved at being separated from his favourite

and impatiently counted the days of his absence. At last he said to

his courtiers: “What need had I of such a throne, since the society of

such a friend was more valuable to me than a thousand thrones of king

Sulayman? Perchance Farrukhrúz has been unable to attain his object and

is ashamed to return.” The vazírs professed to agree with the king’s

opinion, being afraid to contradict him. On the fortieth day, however,

Farrukhrúz brought the throne to the palace before any of the vazírs

or secretaries had made their appearance. At the joyful sight the king

embraced and kissed him affectionately, and ordered all the great drums

of gladness to be beaten. The grandees, who were yet in their own houses,

were astonished at the sounds they heard, and when they learned what

had happened they were confused and dismayed. On going to the palace,

and seeing that the honour which Farrukhrúz had before enjoyed was

greatly increased, they said one to another: “The luck of this man is

truly marvellous, since he has accomplished what everybody considered an

impossibility.”









CHAPTER III.



    THE HERO GOES IN QUEST OF FOUR TREASURE-TREES, AND IS MARRIED

    TO THE QUEEN OF THE FAIRIES.





The king of Yaman again gave a grand banquet, at which the wonderful cock

was exhibited beside the magnificent throne which Farrukhrúz had brought

from fairyland, and which was greatly admired by the assembled people.

The vazírs were obliged to conceal their malevolence, and after giving

utterance to many expressions of admiration they said: “Although your

majesty’s humble servants and well-wishers are unable to produce anything

themselves, yet they consider it their duty to suggest anything which

might increase your glory. If four date-trees of gold, having fruits and

leaves of jewels, were placed at the four corners of this throne there

is no doubt your majesty would be unequalled as the possessor of costly

and rare objects, and no monarch on earth could pretend to the least

shadow of equality with our king.”[69] The sultan smiled disdainfully

and said: “Such a wish cannot be realised; for, though I have perused

many biographical and historical works, I have never read that anything

of this kind exists in the world.” They replied: “May it please your

majesty, there is nothing which will not yield to skill and intelligent

efforts.” Quoth the king: “Who, then, is able to procure those objects?”

“Farrukhrúz is the man,” said the vazírs. “God forbid,” exclaimed the

king, “that I should burden him with this affair, seeing that I am

already under great obligations to him. Propose some one else.” After

the conversation had thus continued for some time, Farrukhrúz stood up

and said: “If your majesty will give me leave, I shall be most happy

to undertake this business.” The king hesitated long, but ultimately

permitted him to go, on condition that he returned at the end of six

months.



Farrukhrúz accordingly departed in quest of the treasure-trees, and

when he was well out of the city he took the signet-ring given to him

by the king of the fairies and put it on his finger, when immediately

an afrít[70] of dreadful aspect, large as an elephant and fierce as a

dragon, appeared before him, and bowing humbly said: “I am Kashank the

afrít whom the king of the fairies has sent to serve you, and I have

come to execute your orders.” “I wish to see her majesty the queen of

the fairies,” rejoined Farrukhrúz, upon which the afrít Kashank drew the

finger of obedience over the eyes of acquiescence, and taking Farrukhrúz

on his back ascended into the sky.



After the fairy queen had despatched Farrukhrúz to her cousin to cure

his son, she sent a number of afríts for her sister Nafísa, who had

ill-treated Farrukhrúz, and when she was brought the queen spoke to

her thus: “Sinful woman! how is it that you always afflict Muslims,

who are of all men by their piety and devotion the greatest favourites

in the courts of Unity? How had poor Farrukhrúz offended you that you

should change him into a monkey?” Then the queen would have punished

her, but all the fairies pleaded in her favour and Nafísa was pardoned.

But so far from feeling grateful for this clemency, Nafísa, to avenge

the humiliation which she had been forced to endure at the court of her

sister, plotted with a number of malevolent genii against Queen Bánú.

Knowing that her sister wished to marry Farrukhrúz, and that he had cured

the prince and obtained from his father such a powerful talisman as the

signet-ring, she said to her complotters: “It is likely that the love

which Farrukhrúz entertains for Queen Bánú will induce him to visit her

presently, and as she has so deeply insulted me you must kill him and

thus disappoint her. Let one of my damsels be dressed to resemble Queen

Bánú, and send her with a suitable retinue to meet Farrukhrúz, who will

mistake her for the queen and marry her. In his attentions to her he

will become careless about the ring, so that you will be able to take it

from his finger and then easily put him to death.” Matters having been

thus arranged, they waited for the appearance of Farrukhrúz. It happened

also that Kashank the afrít, whom the king of the fairies had sent to

Farrukhrúz, was a friend and well-wisher of Nafísa, so he informed her

of his errand, and she in return disclosed to him her scheme, upon which

he said: “Be not dismayed; make all arrangements for your damsel to meet

Farrukhrúz in the spot where you first saw him, and I shall bring him

thither.”



       *       *       *       *       *



When Kashank took up Farrukhrúz he ascended higher than any flight of

imagination could conceive, but on coming over the country of Syria

he gradually lowered himself and set Farrukhrúz down in the fairy

park, saying: “Happy mortal! as the secrets of our minds are known to

our true friends and reflected to each other in the mirrors of their

hearts, the queen has obtained the glad tidings of your propitious

advent, and will to-day throw a halo of felicity by meeting you with a

numerous company in this very place. I have brought you here to see your

love.” Farrukhrúz was charmed with this information, and presently was

introduced to one of Nafísa’s maids, dressed to personate Queen Bánú,

seated on a throne, and surrounded by numerous attendants, in great pomp

and dignity. He was deceived by her striking resemblance to the queen,

and, losing self-possession, eagerly ran to meet her, and they fell into

each other’s arms. After the first ebullition of joy was over, she

invited him to seat himself on the throne by her side, and conversed

with him on his adventures. On being informed of the envy of the vazírs

she said: “Beloved friend, are you not disgusted to live among persons

who are unable to appreciate your merits and send you on such errands?

I entreat you by your love not to expose yourself to farther dangers,

and never to return to that place. Remain with me, and let us both be

happy.” While she was thus cajoling Farrukhrúz her attendants gradually

disappeared, and when they were quite alone she threw her arms around

his neck and kissed him. Farrukhrúz had no sooner yielded to the impulse

of his passions than he felt that his mind was becoming deranged; his

head became dizzy and he closed his eyes, and on opening them again he

could find no trace of his mistress, and the whole scene was changed. He

heard the wind blowing and thunders roaring; his mind was confused; he

began to babble incoherently, and at last was drowned in the ocean of

unconsciousness. When he recovered from his trance he found that he had

assumed the form of an old barber in Damascus, and was just then engaged

in shaving the head of a customer, having in his shop the utensils

required in the trade and a number of apprentices standing round him. He

was amazed at this new scene, and thought within himself: “What have I

come to?” and recollecting the signet-ring, with the injunction of the

king of the fairies, he began to weep bitterly.



The man whom he was shaving saw him moving his lips, muttering something,

and shaking his head; so he said to him: “Barber, what is the matter

with you? Perhaps you are calculating the income of your trade, or have

been long in the bath, the fumes of which have muddled your brains, that

you have stopped shaving my head.[71] Be quick! The police magistrate

has invited a large number of high personages to be his guests to-day,

and there is no one except myself to make the necessary arrangements for

the repast.” But Farrukhrúz was so absorbed in his thoughts about Queen

Bánú that he paid not the least attention to what his customer said, at

which the latter became wroth and expostulated, whereupon Farrukhrúz,

who imagined him to be the afrít Kashank, threw away his razor, and tore

his own clothes from top to bottom, strewed dust on his head, struck

the man several times, began to weep, and exclaimed: “Wicked afrít! the

king of the fairies warned me to be on my guard against such as you, and

not let them see the ring. I disregarded this injunction and trusted

in you. By your perfidy I have lost a talisman which is more valuable

than the diadem of Iskandar or the goblet of Jamshíd![72] I have been

deprived of the society of my mistress and become subject to fits of

lunacy and epilepsy, and have lost my happiness. You are not satisfied

with having thus reduced me to misery, but you even now rail at me.” The

customer jumped up, bareheaded as he was, and ran into the bazár, pursued

by Farrukhrúz shouting: “Muslims! seize on Kashank the afrít, who has

deeply wronged me, and destroyed my peace of mind!” As he was thus

bawling and running after the man, his girdle became loose and falling to

his feet he stumbled and fell to the ground, breaking his brow and losing

a great quantity of blood.



When the people saw the servant of the police magistrate running

bare-headed, and a decrepit old barber pursuing him and falling down

wounded, as they knew the other man to be a very bad character, they

concluded that he must have injured the barber, so they assailed

Farrukhrúz with questions, to all of which he only replied: “Seize the

afrít Kashank, who has done me damage of the value of a thousand tománs!”

The people said: “We know him to be the servant of the police magistrate

and a very great scoundrel. He may have injured you, but his name is

not Kashank the afrít. He has now escaped, but if you submit your case

to his master he will be punished.” Then the people bound up his wound

and accompanied him to the magistrate. Farrukhrúz tumbled headlong into

the office and shouted: “Muslims, by the treachery of Kashank the afrít

my happiness has been destroyed!” Several high personages happened to

be with the magistrate just then and were astonished at the intrusion,

but still more so when Farrukhrúz threw a stone in their midst; and as a

few days before an astrologer had predicted that bloodshed and slaughter

would take place in the country, they considered this as an omen and all

ran away, while the magistrate retired to his women’s apartments.[73]

Farrukhrúz rushed into the street, calling out: “Seize Kashank the

afrít, who has changed the spring of my peace into the autumn of misery!”

The people fancied that a thief had escaped from the magistrate’s house

and many of them ran after the fugitives shouting: “Catch Kashank the

afrít, who has run away from the house of the magistrate!” But no one

knew who Kashank was.



It happened that a very tall, dark-complexioned fellow, with a long

dishevelled beard and hair, and dressed in rags, had arrived from the

desert and was walking about the streets. As he had never before seen

such a mob, he got frightened at the noise and began to run like a goblin

of the wilderness, and the people, thinking him to be either Kashank the

afrít or the escaped thief, seized and bound him. Farrukhrúz the maniac,

taking the man for Kashank, then sprang forward, and striking him,

exclaimed: “Perfidious wretch! why have you deprived me of my mistress

and my ring, and thus precipitated me into the abyss of misery?” The man

of the desert was astonished, but thought that it might possibly be the

custom thus to speak to outsiders who intruded themselves into the city.

When the mob perceived the embarrassed countenance and uncouth figure of

the stranger, they also took him for Kashank the afrít and said: “There

is no doubt but he has greatly injured the barber.” At last many people

assembled, and seeing Farrukhrúz lamenting in the most pitiful manner

they began to reproach the stranger, saying: “O Kashank, are you not

ashamed of having done such wrong to this old barber?” The man of the

desert, who had during his whole life never been in a town, supposed this

to be the usual mode of accosting strangers, so he made no reply, merely

shaking his head like the goat of Akhfash.[74] The Amír of the city

happened to return at this time from a hunting excursion, and, seeing the

excited crowd in the street through which he passed, sent a chamberlain

to make inquiries. He returned with the information that a fellow,

Kashank the afrít by name, had deprived the barber of his wife, together

with a costly ring. When Farrukhrúz beheld the royal cavalcade he shouted

the more, but all that the Amír and his courtiers could learn from him

was: “Woe is me! The whirlwind of the treachery of Kashank the afrít has

extinguished the lamp of my happiness, and the fire of his oppression

has melted my soul and my life!” The Amír was of a very kind disposition

and would not suffer even the poorest of his subjects to be wronged, and

he said: “It appears that this peasant has so injured the poor old barber

as to cause him to lose his senses;” then calling to the stranger, who

was now greatly confused, he exclaimed: “Wretch, why have you wronged

this poor man?” The man of the desert, unable to say anything, merely

shook his head as before. At this the Amír smiled and observed: “Here

we have a strange plaintiff and an equally strange defendant, neither

of whom we are able to understand.[75] Is any one present who was a

witness of the outrage?” Hereupon several persons came forward who had

been in the shop when the barber was shaving the servant of the police

magistrate, and next day the latter appeared at the court, but nothing

could be elicited inculpating either him or the man from the desert, and

they were merely required to give securities for their good behaviour,

while Farrukhrúz was sent to the hospital for lunatics.



       *       *       *       *       *



As soon as Nafísa had, with the assistance of Kashank, succeeded in

deranging the mind of Farrukhrúz, they sought for the ring but could

not find it. Then quoth Nafísa: “My object was not so much to obtain

possession of the ring as to prevent Queen Bánú from meeting her lover,

and therefore we must kill him.” But Kashank, who had some experience of

life, replied: “O queen of the universe, though, for the sake of gaining

your approbation, I have become unfaithful to my sovereign, I shall not

commit this new crime, the consequences of which were irreparable. This

young man has done much good by curing the son of the king, who will be

highly displeased at what has happened, but if we execute this second

part of your scheme we shall certainly jeopardise our own lives.” So it

was concluded to spare the life of Farrukhrúz, whom the afrít transported

to Damascus, where he arrived early in the morning, and perceived only a

barber’s shop open, the owner of which he seized and threw into the sea,

putting Farrukhrúz in his stead after having by a magic spell caused him

to assume the form of the old man. For this reason, wise and intelligent

men have warned people never to open their shops before sunrise, because

if they do so they become liable to be injured by genii and demons.



After committing this diabolical crime, Kashank waited the next day on

the king of the fairies, who immediately asked about Farrukhrúz. The

afrít replied: “May it please your exalted majesty, a misfortune has

befallen Farrukhrúz. He was merely sent by the king of Yaman on some

business to the river Nile, and when I brought him thither the water

became very rough, and the afrít Hankál, who is one of his enemies, and

dwells in Egypt, and persecutes human beings, issued from the stream

with seventy afríts of extraordinary power, and as I was unable to cope

with them, they dragged Farrukhrúz under the water and separated his

head from his body, which immediately rose again to the surface and

became the prey of voracious beasts, so that I was compelled to return

in great distress.” At first the king believed this statement, but his

vazír Akhtár said to him: “As I know the evil disposition of Kashank, I

intended to dissuade your majesty from appointing him to this business,

especially as he had been still more led astray by Nafísa, and it is most

probable that she has had something to do in this matter, since she has

on a former occasion injured Farrukhrúz and bears bitter enmity towards

Queen Bánú.” Then the king examined Kashank more closely but without

effect, and finally imprisoned him till farther orders.



The following day one of the treasurers came before the king with a

ring in his hand and said: “This is the ring which your majesty gave to

Farrukhrúz, and which has returned to the treasury.” This betokened that

Farrukhrúz was still alive, and the king sending for Kashank showed him

the ring and told him that he would extort the truth from him by force.

Just then one of the king’s serving genii, who had for some time been

wandering among men for the purpose of avenging his brother’s death,

made his appearance, and stated that he had seen at Damascus a lunatic

who was constantly complaining of Kashank and was probably Farrukhrúz.

The king at once delivered the ring to an afrít with orders to bring

Farrukhrúz, which was done accordingly, and as soon as Farrukhrúz saw the

king he wept bitterly, but the king embraced and comforted him. Then the

king of the fairies sent for Kashank, Nafísa, and Queen Bánú, the two

former of whom he reproved and imprisoned, and to the latter he said:

“Though it is not customary for fairies to marry human beings, yet as

this young man has conferred great benefits on us, I have resolved to

espouse him to you after the orthodox Muslim manner.” Queen Bánú replied:

“Noble uncle! I consider you as my father and shall obey you as long as

I live.” The matrimonial ceremony was celebrated in due form and the

happy couple were full of joy. Some time afterwards Farrukhrúz informed

the king of his promise to the sultan of Yaman, and said that if he were

allowed a year’s leave of absence he would then return and never more

separate from them. The king and the queen Bánú consented, and caused the

required four treasure-trees to be carried to Yaman by seventy faithful

afríts, whom Farrukhrúz accompanied.









CHAPTER IV.



    HOW THE HERO PRETENDED TO VISIT PARADISE, AND CAUSED ALL HIS

    ENEMIES TO PERISH.





Now the courtiers of the sultan of Yaman had been all the time exulting

in the belief that Farrukhrúz would not return; but the king was

confident that he would soon make his appearance. One month before the

leave had expired news was brought that Farrukhrúz was come back with

the treasure-trees on four elephants and himself riding on a fifth. The

king at once marched out with his army to meet him, and when they were

in sight of each other they alighted and embraced with the greatest

manifestations of joy.[76] They rode side by side into the city amidst

the acclamations of the people, and in the palace a throne was placed for

Farrukhrúz, on which he seated himself. When the four golden date-trees

were set around the sultan’s throne and everything was arranged with the

utmost splendour, the envious vazírs and secretaries were full of chagrin

and said to each other: “This man’s luck is most extraordinary, for he

succeeds in whatever he undertakes, and he has so eclipsed us that the

king cares little for any person besides him.”



The golden date-trees being placed one at each corner of the throne

which Farrukhrúz had first procured, with the wonderful cock in front

of it, and all the grandees being assembled, the king said: “What else

besides these rare objects and so dear a friend can contribute to augment

the happiness and glory of a monarch?” Quoth the envious courtiers:

“May your majesty live for ever! Indeed there is nothing in this world

so splendid as this spectacle we at present behold; and to make your

felicity complete it would only be necessary to convey this news to the

eternal world—to inform the forefathers of your majesty who now occupy

the chief places in Paradise; and, as they enjoy the closest intimacy

with the angels of mercy and their prayers meet with acceptance, it would

be well to request a prolongation of your life, which would doubtless

be granted.” The king replied, full of astonishment: “You ask indeed

something very foolish and unattainable.” But they said: “May it please

your majesty, all things in this world depend upon good luck, and as long

as it serves a man he will easily succeed in anything he may undertake;

and, praise be to the Most High, such is your majesty’s case.”



As opinions expressed by different persons find generally an approbative

response, though they may be absurd, and the flames into which they fan

the imagination cannot be extinguished by every intellect, so these

suggestions made an impression on the mind of the king, who thought

there could be no harm in discussing the matter, so he inquired: “Who can

undertake such a business?” To this the envious vazírs replied with one

voice: “Farrukhrúz is the happy man who is successful in everything!”

But the king said: “I have scarcely recovered from the grief I suffered

on account of his absence and only begun to enjoy the happiness of his

presence; how, then, could I again separate from him? You must propose

some one else.” Farrukhrúz, seeing the turn things had taken, arose and

thus addressed the king: “As long as your majesty’s slave is alive, he

is always ready to obey your behests. If I obtain leave for one year I

shall accomplish the business.” As no other person offered his services,

the king reluctantly consented to part with his favourite. Farrukhrúz

suggested that all the letters should be prepared, and that every one who

had a relative or friend in the other world might send him a message.

Accordingly the king dictated to one of his secretaries the following

epistle:



“In consequence of the intimation of the Sovereign of the decrees of

Fate, of whose power the existence of all creatures is but one sign, our

glorious relatives and ancestors have left this terrestrial abode for the

eternal Paradise, and having thus been delivered of all the vicissitudes

of Fortune, they have left me to inherit their just and righteous

government, so that I have, by the boundless favour of the Giver of all

gifts, become very happy and have no wishes unfulfilled. I have therefore

sent this letter by my devoted servant Farrukhrúz to set the minds of

my beloved ancestors at rest on this subject. And as I am aware that

they are immersed in the shoreless ocean of the divine mercy, and I fear

lest the thread of my life may be suddenly snapped, I cannot enjoy my

happiness as I ought; and since those denizens of the holy regions of the

Kingdom of Pardon are closely connected with and befriended by the angels

of mercy and the cherubim of the courts of Unity, I trust they will

be able to obtain the prolongation of the terrestrial existence of my

life. I do not venture to draw out this request to greater length; and,

making my obeisance, I crave that the bearer of this, Farrukhrúz, who is

indispensable to my comfort, be not detained beyond the space of a few

days.”



The vazírs and secretaries followed the example of their sovereign and

also wrote affectionate letters to their beatified relatives; and when

all the letters were written the king sealed them and gave them to

Farrukhrúz. When the sultan asked Farrukhrúz how he meant to depart for

the next world, he requested a large quantity of dry wood to be piled

up. After more than a thousand ass-loads of fuel had been accumulated,

Farrukhrúz kissed the sultan’s hand, bade him farewell, and desired

the fire to be kindled at the four corners of the pile; and when he

was enveloped in smoke he put the magic ring on his finger and was in

a twinkling transported by afríts to the presence of the king of the

fairies and the queen Bánú, to whom he related his adventures, and they

highly approved of his stratagem.



In that delightful region Farrukhrúz spent a whole year joyfully with his

beloved spouse Bánú, and when his leave of absence was almost expired

he told her that this was the last service he should perform for the

sultan of Yaman, after which he should be entirely devoted to her. The

king of the fairies said they wished only to please him, and he might

act as he thought fit. So Farrukhrúz wrote various replies on the part

of the spirits in Paradise for the sultan of Yaman and his vazírs and

secretaries, after which the afríts conveyed him to Yaman.



The sultan and all the people were sorely grieved at the departure of

Farrukhrúz on his last enterprise, but not so the vazírs, who rejoiced

and said one to another: “It is wonderful that a young man who was so

very intelligent should have thus voluntarily destroyed himself! He

cannot possibly return.” And even the king almost despaired of again

seeing his favourite; nevertheless on the day appointed for his return he

held a grand levee, at which all the grandees were ordered to be present.

The vazírs of course obeyed the summons, whispering to each other: “Our

sultan is indeed a fool! A whole year has elapsed since he saw a man

burnt to ashes and now he expects him to return.” Their exultation was,

however, soon ended on hearing the approach of Farrukhrúz announced among

tumultuous acclamations of joy; and when he actually appeared the king

was almost frantic with ecstasy, kissed him fervently, and exclaimed:

“Now am I the happiest of men!” Then his majesty made inquiries regarding

his blessed ancestors, and Farrukhrúz took out the letters, saying: “Most

exalted sovereign, no man is able to describe the multifarious pleasures

of Paradise—the sweetness of the climate, the beauty of the flowers,

the graces of the húrís, the splendid palaces of that beatified abode;

and your majesty will not have any idea of them until you participate

yourself in those delights. Indeed I was very reluctant to leave that

blessed region. Your majesty’s exalted father is in paradise, and your

mother is his partner;[77] your other relatives enjoy appropriate

dignities and are waited upon by many húrís and slaves.” Farrukhrúz

having concluded, the sultan thanked him, and began to read the letter

from Paradise, which contained many compliments, and stated that his

ancestors had prepared for his acceptance many costly presents which they

would entrust to such of his vazírs, secretaries, and other officials

whose names were written in a list given to Farrukhrúz, and for this

purpose they were to come at once to Paradise—their own relatives

moreover being extremely desirous of seeing them; therefore they were in

no way to elude this command, on pain of incurring the displeasure of

the Most High, but, as they were necessary to carry on the government of

Yaman, they should be sent back to the earth at the end of forty days.[78]



This message having been communicated to the vazírs and other officials,

the king commanded them to be ready next morning to set out for Paradise,

and they at once perceived that their lives were in danger. The sultan,

reading their thoughts in their terrified countenances, exclaimed: “O

ye besotted fools! All intelligent and pious men labour during their

whole lives to attain Paradise, and you ought to be delighted with the

message you have just received. Get quickly ready to depart!” Accordingly

they were obliged to feign acquiescence and prepare for death. Then said

Farrukhrúz to the sultan: “Though there are many roads, none is shorter

than that by which your majesty’s humble servant departed.” So the

sultan caused a great quantity of wood to be piled up and about fifty

of those wicked and envious men to be placed upon it. When the fire was

kindled and began to distress them, they pleaded for mercy, and said: “We

acknowledge our fault and repent of it. Hereafter we shall never envy or

slander any one.” But their entreaties were not heeded and they became a

prey to the flames.



After this the sultan counted the days, and when the fortieth arrived he

said to Farrukhrúz: “To-day our friends should return, and I am expecting

them.” But when it was evening and there was no sign of them, the sultan

said to his favourite: “Wise men have said that the road to the next

world is full of dangers, and I begin to fear that some accident has

befallen our friends.” Hereupon Farrukhrúz exclaimed: “May it please

your majesty, that is a road which not everybody can travel upon,” and

proceeded to relate the truth of the whole affair, adding: “The greatest

service I have rendered your majesty was to purge the kingdom of those

villains, because they would, by their conspiracies and treacherous

machinations, at last have succeeded in ruining the country.” When the

sultan became fully aware of the wickedness of the vazírs he thanked

Farrukhrúz and said: “So long as I have you what more vazírs do I need?

And as I possess no offspring I make you my successor.” Farrukhrúz

kissed the ground of obedience and replied: “May power and dominion

ever belong to your majesty! I have sojourned here to serve you and to

remove those wretches. But as I am connected with the fairies, I have

no longer the option to remain here. I shall however bring my parents

and relatives, and beg your majesty to receive them under the shadow

of your protection.” The sultan agreed to this proposal and by order

of Farrukhrúz the afríts brought his whole family to Yaman, and they

were most happy to meet him. The sultan made Khoja Marján, the father

of Farrukhrúz, his vazír, and appointed his other relatives to various

stations.



When the leave of Farrukhrúz had expired he bade adieu to the sultan and

his relatives, and departing to the land of the fairies he joined his

spouse Queen Bánú, and whilst he lived never omitted to visit his friends

at Yaman once every six months. At last, however, all responded to the

unavoidable behest of the sovereign of destiny, and, being divested of

the borrowed garments of this perishable life, departed to the regions of

eternity.









THE KING AND HIS FOUR MINISTERS.









THE KING AND HIS FOUR MINISTERS.



    Though the commands of royalty pervade

    The world, yet sovereigns ever should remember,

    The light of justice must direct their path.



                                               _Hindú Drama._





There was a city called Alakápuri, famous for all the riches that sea and

land can yield, and inhabited by people speaking different languages. In

that city reigned a king named Alakésa,[79] who was a storehouse of all

excellent qualities. He was so just a king that during his reign the cow

and the tiger amicably quenched their thirst side by side in the same

pond, and the kite and the parrot laid their eggs in the same nest, as

though they were “birds of a feather.”[80] The women never deviated from

the path of virtue, and regarded their husbands as gods.[81] Timely

rain refreshed the soil, and all Alakésa’s subjects lived in plenty and

happiness. In short, Alakésa was the body and his subjects the soul of

that body, for he was upright in all things.





_Story of the Lost Camel._



Now there was in Alakápuri a rich merchant who lost a camel one day. He

searched for it without success in all directions, and at last reached

a road which he was informed led to another city, called Mathurapuri,

the king of which was named Mathurésa. He had under him four excellent

ministers, whose names were Bodhaditya, Bodhachandra, Bodhavyapaka, and

Bodhavibhishana. These four ministers being, for some reason, displeased

with the king quitted his dominions, and set out for another country.

As they journeyed along they observed the track of a camel, and each

made a remark on the peculiar condition of the animal, judging from its

footsteps and other indications on the road.[82] Presently they met the

merchant who was searching for his camel, and, entering into conversation

with him, one of the travellers inquired if the animal was not lame in

one of the legs; another asked if it was not blind in the right eye;

the third asked if its tail was not unusually short; and the fourth

inquired if it was not suffering from colic. They were all answered in

the affirmative by the merchant, who was convinced that they must have

met the animal, and eagerly demanded where they had seen it. They replied

that they had seen traces of the camel, but not the camel itself, which

being inconsistent with the minute description they had given of it, the

merchant accused them of having stolen the beast, and immediately applied

to King Alakésa for redress. On hearing the merchant’s story, the king

was equally impressed with the belief that the travellers must know what

had become of the camel, and sending for them threatened them with his

displeasure if they did not confess the truth. How could they know, he

demanded, that the camel was lame or blind, or whether the tail was

long or short, or that it was suffering from any malady, unless they had

it in their possession? In reply, they each explained the reasons which

had induced them to express their belief in these particulars. The first

traveller said: “I noticed in the footmarks of the animal that one was

deficient, and I concluded accordingly that it was lame in one of its

legs.” The second said: “I noticed that the leaves of the trees on the

left side of the road had been snapped or torn off, whilst those on the

right side were untouched, whence I concluded that the animal was blind

of his right eye.” The third said: “I saw some drops of blood on the

road, which I conjectured had flowed from the bites of gnats or flies,

and I thence concluded that the camel’s tail was shorter than usual, in

consequence of which he could not brush the insects away.” The fourth

said: “I observed that while the forefeet of the animal were planted

firmly on the ground the hind ones appeared to have scarcely touched

it, whence I guessed that they were contracted by pain in the belly of

the animal.” When the king heard their explanations he was much struck

by the sagacity of the travellers, and, giving 500 pagodas[83] to the

merchant who had lost the camel, he made the four young men his principal

ministers, and bestowed on each of them several villages as free gifts.



From that time these four young men became the confidential advisers

of King Alakésa in all important affairs of state, and, as night is

the house of sins, they in turn kept a regular watch in the city of

Alakápuri, each patrolling the streets during three hours of the night.

Thus they continued to faithfully serve King Alakésa, till, one night,

the _First Minister_, when his watch was over, proceeded, as usual,

to see whether the royal bedchamber was properly guarded; after which

he went to the temple of the goddess Kálí, where he heard what seemed

to him the voice of a woman, lamenting and sobbing in great distress.

Concealing himself behind the _vád_-tree of the temple, he called out:

“Who are you, poor woman? And why do you thus weep?” At once the cries

ceased, and a voice from the temple inquired: “Who art thou that thus

questionest me?” Then the minister knew that it was Kálí herself who

wept; so he threw himself on the ground, and, rising up, exclaimed: “O

my mother!—Kálí!—Sambhavi!—Mahámayi![84] Why should you thus bitterly

weep?” Quoth Kálí: “What is the use of my revealing it to thee? Canst

thou render any assistance?” The minister said that, if he had but her

favour, there was nothing he could not do. Then the goddess told him that

a calamity was about to come upon the king, and fearing that such a good

monarch was soon to disappear from the world she wept. The thought of

such a misfortune caused the minister to tremble; he fell down before the

goddess, and with tears streaming from his eyes besought her to save him.

Kálí was much gratified to observe his devotion to his master, and thus

addressed him:



“Know, then, that your king will be in danger of three calamities

to-morrow, any one of which were sufficient to cause his death. First of

all, early in the morning there will come to the palace several carts

containing newly-reaped paddy grains. The king will be delighted at this,

and immediately order a measure of the paddy to be husked and cooked

for his morning meal. Now, the field in which that paddy grew was the

abode of serpents, two of which were fighting together one day, when

they emitted poison, which has permeated those grains. Therefore, the

morning meal of your king will contain poison, but only in the first

handful will it take effect, and he will die. Should he escape, another

calamity is in store for him at noon. The king of Vijayanajara[85] will

send to-morrow some baskets of sweetmeats. In the first basket he has

concealed arrows. King Alakésa, suspecting no treachery, will order the

first basket to be opened in his presence, and will meet his death by

that device. And, even should he escape this second calamity, a third

will put an end to his life to-morrow night. A deadly serpent will

descend into his bedroom, by means of the chain of his hanging cot, and

bite him. But, should he be saved from this last misfortune, Alakésa will

live long and prosperously, till he attains the age of a hundred and

twenty years.”



Thus spake Kálí, in tones of sorrow, for she feared that the king should

lose his life by one of these three calamities. The minister prostrated

himself on the ground, and said that if the goddess would but grant him

her favour he was confident he could contrive to avert all the threatened

evils from the king. Kálí smiled and disappeared; and the minister,

taking her kind smile as a token of her favour, returned home and slept

soundly.



As soon as morning dawned, the _First Minister_ arose, and, having made

the customary ablutions, proceeded to the palace. He took care to reveal

to no one the important secret communicated to him by the goddess—not

even to his three colleagues. The sun was not yet two _ghatikas_[86]

above the horizon when several carts containing the finest paddy grains,

specially selected for the king’s use, came into the courtyard of the

palace. Alakésa was present, and ordered a measure of it to be at once

husked and cooked. The coming in of the carts and the king’s order so

exactly coincided with Kálí’s words that the minister began to fear

that he was quite unequal to the task of averting the fatality; yet

the recollection of the smile of the goddess inspired him with fresh

resolution, and he at once went to the palace-kitchen and requested the

servants to inform him when the king was about to go to dinner. After

issuing orders for the storing of the grain, King Alakésa retired to

perform his morning ablutions and other religious duties.



Meanwhile a carriage containing the pots of sweetmeats sent by the king

of Vijayanajara drove up to the palace, and the emissary who accompanied

the present told the royal servants that his master had commanded him

to deliver it to King Alakésa in person. The _First Minister_ well

understood the meaning of this, and, promising to bring the king, went

into the palace, caused one of the servants to be dressed like Alakésa,

and conducted him to the carriage. The officer of the Vijayanajara king

placed the first pot before the supposed Alakésa, who at once opened it,

when, lo! there darted forth several arrows, one of which pierced his

heart, and he fell dead on the spot.[87] In an instant the emissary was

seized and bound, and the officers began to lament the death of their

good king. But the fatal occurrence spread rapidly through the palace,

and soon the real Alakésa made his appearance on the scene. The officers

now beheld one Alakésa dead and fallen to the ground, pierced by the

arrow, and another standing there alive and well. The _First Minister_

then related how, suspecting treachery, he brought out a servant of the

palace dressed like the king, and how he had been slain in place of his

royal master. Alakésa thanked the minister for having so ingeniously

saved his life, and went into the palace. Thus was one of the three

calamities to the king averted by the faithful Bodhaditya.



When it was the hour for dinner, the king and his courtiers all sat

down, with the exception of the _First Minister_, who remained standing,

without having taken a leaf for his own use.[88] The king, observing

this, with a smile pointed out a leaf to him, but Bodhaditya would not

sit: he wished to be near the king and to abstain from eating on that

occasion. So the king allowed him to have his own way. The food having

been served on the leaves, the hands of all, including the king, were

mingling the rice, ghí, and dhal for the first course. Near the king

stood his faithful minister Bodhaditya, and when the king raised the

first handful to his mouth, “Stop, my master,” cried he; “I have long

hoped for this handful as a present to me from your royal hands. I pray

you give it to me, and feed upon the rest of the rice on your leaf.” This

was uttered more in a tone of command than of request, and the king was

highly incensed at what he naturally considered as insolence on the part

of the minister. For such a request, especially when made to a king,

is deemed nothing less than an insult, while to refuse it is equally

offensive. So, whatever thoughts may have passed through Alakésa’s mind,

recollecting how the minister had that morning saved his life, he gave

him the handful of rice, which Bodhaditya received with delight, feeling

grateful for the favour of the goddess in being the means of averting

this second calamity. Far different, however, were the sentiments of the

king and the assembled company. One and all declared Bodhaditya to be an

insolent, proud fellow; but the king, while secretly blaming himself for

having allowed him to use so much familiarity, suppressed his anger, in

consideration of the important service the minister had rendered him in

the affair of the arrows.



On the approach of night the heart of the _First Minister_ throbbed

violently, for the third calamity predicted by the goddess was yet to

be encountered. His watch being ended, before retiring to rest he went

to examine the royal bedroom, where he saw the light burning brightly,

and the king and queen asleep side by side in the ornamented swing-cot,

which was suspended from the roof by four chains. Presently he perceived

with horror a fierce black snake, the smell of which is enough to kill

a man, slowly gliding down the chain near the head of the queen. The

minister noiselessly went forward, and, with a single stroke of his sharp

sword, cut the venomous brute in two. Bodhaditya, to avoid disturbing any

person at such an hour of the night, threw the pieces over the canopy of

the bed, rejoicing at having thus averted the third and last calamity.

But a fresh horror then met his eyes: a drop of the snake’s poison had

fallen on the bosom of the queen, which was exposed in the carelessness

of slumber. “Alas, sacred goddess!” he muttered, “why do you thus raise

up new obstacles in my efforts to avert the evil which you predicted? I

have done what I could to save the king, and in this last trial I have

killed his beloved queen! How can I remove the poison from her bosom?

How can I profane that sacred spot with my hand? But I regard her even

as my own mother; and do not children draw their nourishment from the

breasts of their mothers?” Having thus briefly reflected, he wiped off

the poison from the queen’s bosom with the tip of his little finger,

and in case the contact of the venom with his finger should endanger

his own life he cut the tip of it off and threw it on the canopy. Just

then the queen awoke, and perceiving a man hastily leaving the room she

cried: “Who are you?” The minister respectfully answered: “Most venerable

mother, I am your son Bodhaditya,” and at once retired. Upon this the

queen thought within herself: “Alas, is there a good man in this world?

Hitherto have I regarded this Bodhaditya as my son; but now he has basely

taken the opportunity of thus disgracing me when my lord and I were sound

asleep. I shall inform the king of this affair, and have that wretch’s

head struck off before the morning.” Accordingly she gently awakened the

king, and, with tears trickling down her beauteous face, she told him

what had occurred, and concluded with these words: “Till now, my lord,

I considered that I was wife to you alone; but this night your First

Minister has made me doubt it, since to my question, ‘Who are you?’

he answered, without any shame, ‘I am Bodhaditya,’ and went away.” On

hearing of this violation of the sanctity of his bedchamber. Alakésa was

greatly enraged, and determined to put to death such an unprincipled

servant, but first to communicate the affair to his three other ministers.



       *       *       *       *       *



When the _Second Minister’s_ watch was over he went to inspect the guard

at the royal bedchamber, and Alakésa hearing his footstep inquired who

was there. “Your servant, Bodhachandra, most royal lord,” was the reply.

“Enter, Bodhachandra,” said the king. “I have somewhat to communicate

to you.” Then Alakésa, almost choking with rage, told him of the gross

offence of which his colleague the First Minister had been guilty, and

demanded to know whether any punishment could be too severe. Bodhachandra

humbled himself before the king, and thus replied: “My lord, such a

crime merits a heavy requital. Can one tie up fire in one’s cloth,[89]

and think that, as it is but a small spark, it will do no harm? How,

then, can we excuse even slight deviations from the rules of propriety?

Therefore, if Bodhaditya be really guilty he must be signally punished.

But permit me to represent to your majesty the advisability of carefully

inquiring into this matter before proceeding to judgment. We ought to

ascertain what reasons he had for such a breach of the zanána[90] rules;

for should we, carried away by anger, act rashly in this affair, we may

repent when repentance is of no avail. As an example I shall, with your

majesty’s permission, relate a story.” The king having at once given his

consent, the _Second Minister_ began to relate the





_Story of the Hunter and his Faithful Dog_.



There dwelt in a certain forest a hunter named Ugravira, who was lord of

the woods, and as such had to pay a fixed sum of money to the king of

the country. It chanced once that the king unexpectedly demanded of him

one thousand five hundred _pons_.[91] The hunter sold all his property

and realised only a thousand pons, and was perplexed how to procure the

rest of the required amount. At length he bethought him of his dog, which

was of the best kind, and was beloved by him more than aught else in

the whole world. He took his dog to an adjacent town, where he pledged

him to a merchant named Kubéra for five hundred pons, at the same time

giving the merchant his bond for the loan. Before going away, the

hunter, with tears in his eyes, thus addressed the intelligent animal:

“Mrigasinha[92]—O my faithful friend! do not leave thy new master until I

have paid him back the money I have borrowed of him. Obey and serve him,

even as thou hast ever obeyed and served me.”



Some time after this, the merchant Kubéra had to leave home and proceed

with his goods to foreign countries; so he called the hunter’s dog to

his side, and bade him watch at his doors and prevent the intrusion of

robbers and other evil disposed persons. The dog indicated, both by his

eyes and his tail, that he perfectly understood his instructions. Then

the merchant, having enjoined his wife to feed the dog three times every

day with rice and milk, set out on his travels. The dog kept his watch

outside of the house, and for a few days the merchant’s wife fed him

regularly three times a day. But this kind treatment was not to continue.

She had for her paramour a wicked youth of the Setti caste,[93] who,

soon after the departure of Kubéra, became a constant visitor at the

merchant’s house. The faithful dog instinctively surmised that his new

master would not approve of such conduct; so one night when the youth

was leaving the house Mrigasinha sprang on him like an enraged lion,

and, seizing him by the throat, sent that evil-doer to the other world.

The merchant’s wife, hearing the scuffle, ran to the spot to save her

lover, but found him dead. Though extremely grieved at the loss of her

paramour, she had the presence of mind to immediately carry the body to

the garden at the back of the house, where she concealed it in a great

pit, and covered it with earth and leaves, vainly thinking that she had

thus concealed her own shame. This was not done, however, without being

observed by the watchful dog; and henceforth the merchant’s wife hated

him with a deadly hatred. She no longer gave him food, and the poor

creature was fain to eat such grains of rice as he found adhering to the

leaves thrown out of the house after meals, still keeping guard at the

door.



After an absence of two months the merchant returned, and the dog, the

moment he saw him, ran up to him and rolled himself on the ground at

his feet; then seizing the merchant’s cloth he dragged him to the very

spot in the garden where the youth’s body was hidden, and began to

scratch the ground, at the same time looking into the merchant’s face and

howling dismally, from which Kubéra concluded that the dog wished him

to examine the place. Accordingly he dug up the spot and discovered the

body of the youth, whom, indeed, he had suspected of being his wife’s

paramour. In a great fury he rushed into the house and commanded his

wife, on pain of instant death, to relate the particulars of this affair

without concealing anything. The wretched woman, seeing that her sin was

discovered, confessed all, upon which her husband exclaimed: “Disgrace

of womankind! you have not a fraction of the virtue possessed by this

faithful brute, which you have, out of revenge, allowed to starve. But

why should I waste words on thee? Depart, and let me see your face no

more!” So saying, he thrust her out of the house. Then the merchant fed

the dog with milk, rice, and sugar, after which he said to that lion of

beasts: “Thou trusty friend! language fails to express my gratitude to

thee. The five hundred pons which I lent thy old master the hunter are as

nothing compared with thy services to me, by which I consider the debt

as more than paid. What must be the feelings of the hunter without thy

companionship! I now give thee leave to return to him.” The merchant took

the hunter’s bond, and tearing it slightly at the top as a token that it

was cancelled, he placed it in the dog’s mouth, and sending him back to

his former master, the dog set off to the forest.



Now by this time the hunter had contrived to save up the five hundred

pons, and with the money and interest due thereon he was going to the

merchant to redeem his bond and reclaim the dog. To his great surprise,

he met Mrigasinha on the way, and as soon as the dog perceived him he

ran up to him to receive his caresses. But the hunter immediately

concluded that the poor brute, in his eagerness to rejoin him, had run

away from the merchant, and determined to put him to death. Accordingly

he plucked a creeper, and fastening it round the dog’s neck tied it to a

branch of a tree, and the faithful creature, who was expecting nothing

but kindness from his old master, was by him most cruelly strangled. The

hunter then continued his journey, and on reaching the merchant’s house

he laid down the money before him. “My dear friend,” said Kubéra, “the

important service your dog rendered me, in killing my wife’s paramour,

has amply repaid your debt, so I gave him permission to return to you,

with your bond in his mouth. Did you not meet him on your way? But why

do you look so horrified? What have you done to the dog?” The hunter,

to whom everything was now only too clear, threw himself on the ground,

like a huge tree cut at the roots, and, after telling Kubéra how he had

inconsiderately slain the faithful dog, stabbed himself with his dagger.

The merchant, grieved at the death of both the dog and the hunter, which

would not have occurred had he waited until the latter came to redeem his

bond, snatched the weapon out of the hunter’s breast and also stabbed

himself. The news of this tragedy soon reached the forest, and the wife

of the hunter, not wishing to survive her lord, threw herself into a well

and was drowned. Lastly, even the wife of the merchant, finding that so

many fatalities were due to her own misconduct, and that she was despised

by the very children in the streets, put an end to her wretched life.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Thus,” added the _Second Minister_, “five lives were lost in consequence

of the hunter’s rashness. Therefore I would respectfully beseech your

majesty to investigate the case of Bodhaditya, and to refrain from acting

merely under the influence of anger.” Having thus spoken, Bodhachandra

obtained leave to retire to his own house.



       *       *       *       *       *



At the end of the third watch of the night, Bodhavyapaka, the _Third

Minister_ of King Alakésa, went to see whether the royal bedchamber

was properly guarded, and the king, summoning him into his presence,

told him of the First Minister’s crime, upon which Bodhavyapaka, after

making due obeisance, thus spake: “Most noble king, such a grave crime

should be severely punished, but it behoves us not to act before having

ascertained that he is guilty beyond doubt; for evil are the consequences

of precipitation, in proof which I know a story, which I will relate,

with your majesty’s leave:





_Story of the Bráhman’s Wife and the Mungús_.



On the banks of the Ganges, which also flows by the most holy city of

Benáres, there is a town named Mithila, where dwelt a very poor Bráhman

called Vidyadhara. He had no children, and to compensate for this want,

he and his wife tenderly nourished in their house a mungús.[94] It was

their all in all—their younger son, their elder daughter—their elder son,

their younger daughter, so fondly did they regard that little creature.

The deity Visvesvara[95] and his spouse Visalakshi observed this, and

had pity for the unhappy pair; so by their divine power they blessed

them with a son.[96] This most welcome addition to their family did not

alienate the affections of the Bráhman and his wife from the mungús; on

the contrary, their attachment to it increased, for they believed that

it was because of their having adopted the pet that a son had been born

to them. So the child and the mungús were brought up together, as twin

brothers, in the same cradle.



It happened one day, when the Bráhman had gone out to beg alms of the

pious and charitable, that his wife went into the garden to cull some

pot-herbs, leaving the child asleep in his cradle and by his side the

mungús kept guard. An old snake, which was living in the well in the

garden, crept into the house and under the cradle, and was beginning to

climb into it to bite the child when the mungús fiercely attacked it and

tore it into several pieces, thus saving the life of the Bráhman’s little

son, and the venomous snake, that came to slay, itself lay dead beneath

the cradle. Pleased at having performed such an exploit, the mungús ran

into the garden to show the Bráhman’s wife its blood-smeared mouth, but

she rashly mistook the deliverer of her child for his destroyer, and with

one stroke of the knife in her hand, with which she was cutting herbs,

she killed the faithful creature, and then hastened into the house to see

her dead son. But there she found the child in his cradle alive and well,

only crying at the absence of his little companion the mungús, and under

the cradle lay the great serpent cut in pieces. The real state of affairs

was now evident, and the Bráhman presently returning home, his wife told

him of her rash act and then put an end to her life. The Bráhman, in his

turn, disconsolate at the death of the mungús and his wife, slew his

child and then killed himself.



       *       *       *       *       *



“And thus,” added the _Third Minister_, “by one rash act four creatures

perished, so true is it that precipitation results in a series of

calamities. Do not, then, condemn Bodhaditya before his guilt is clearly

proved.” Alakésa having then given Bodhavyapaka the signal to retire, he

quitted the presence and went home.



       *       *       *       *       *



When the watch of the _Fourth Minister_, Bodhavibhishana, was terminated,

he visited the private apartments of the king (who had been meanwhile

pondering the stories he had heard), and was called into the sleeping

chamber by Alakésa, and informed of his colleague’s unpardonable offence.

The Minister, after due prostration, thus addressed his royal master:

“Great King, I can scarcely bring myself to believe that Bodhaditya could

ever be guilty of such a crime, and I would respectfully remind your

majesty that it would not be consistent with your world-wide reputation

for wisdom and justice were you to pronounce judgment in this case

without having inquired into all the circumstances. Evil and injustice

result from hasty decisions and actions, of which a striking illustration

is furnished in the





_Story of the Faithless Wife and the Ungrateful Blind Man_.



In the town of Mithila there lived a young Bráhman who, having a quarrel

with his father-in-law, set out on a pilgrimage to Banáres. Going through

a forest he met a blind man, whose wife was leading him by means of a

stick, one end of which she held in her hand, and her husband holding

the other end was following her. She was young and fair of face, and the

pilgrim made signs to her that she should go with him and leave her blind

husband behind. The proposal thus signified pleased this wanton woman, so

she told her husband to sit under a tree for a few minutes while she went

and plucked him a ripe mango.[97] The blind man sat down accordingly,

and his wife went away with the Bráhman.[98] After waiting a long time

in expectation of his wife’s return, and no person coming near him (for

it was an unfrequented place), her infidelity became painfully apparent

to him and he bitterly cursed both her and the villain who had enticed

her from him. For six days he remained at the foot of the tree, in

woeful condition, without a morsel of rice or a drop of water, and he

was well-nigh dead when at length he heard the sound of footsteps near

him, and cried faintly for help. A man of the Setti caste and his wife

came up to him, and inquired how he happened to be in such a plight. The

blind man told them that his wife had deserted him and gone away with a

young Bráhman, whom they had met, leaving him there alone and helpless.

His story excited the compassion of the Setti and his wife. They gave

him to eat of the small quantity of rice they had with them, and, having

supplied him with water to quench his thirst, the Setti bade his wife

lead him with his stick. The woman, though somewhat reluctant to walk

thus in company with a man who was not her husband, yet reflecting that

charitable actions ought never to be left undone, complied with her

lord’s request, and began to lead the blind man. After travelling in this

manner for a day, the three reached a town, and took up their abode for

the night in the house of a friend of the Setti, where the latter and his

wife gave the blind man a share of their rice before tasting a morsel

themselves.



At daybreak the next morning they advised him to try to provide for

himself in some way in that town, and prepared to resume their journey.

But the blind man, forgetting all the kindness they had shown him, began

to raise an alarm, crying out: “Is there no king in this city to protect

me and give me my rights? Here is a Setti rascal taking away my wife with

him. As I am blind, she denies that I am her husband, and follows that

rogue. But will not the king give me justice?” The people in the street

at once reported these words to the king, who caused inquiry to be made

into the matter. The fact of the Setti’s wife having led the blind man

seemed to indicate that the latter, and not the Setti, was the woman’s

husband, and the king foolishly concluded that both the Setti and his

wife were the real criminals. Accordingly he sentenced the Setti to the

gallows, because he had attempted to entice away a married woman, and

his wife to be burnt in the kiln, as she had wished to forsake her

husband, and he a blind man. When these sentences were pronounced the

blind man was thunderstruck. The thought that by a deliberate lie he had

caused the death of two innocent persons now stung him to the heart. By

this lie he expected that the Setti only should be punished, and that the

woman should be made over to him as his own wife, but now he found that

she also was condemned to death. “Vile wretch that I am!” said he. “I do

not know what sins I committed in a former life to be thus blind now.[99]

My real wife, too, deserted me; and I, heaping sins upon sins, have

now by a false report sent to death an innocent man and his wife, who

rescued me from a horrible fate and tended to all my wants last night.

O Mahámayi! what punishment you have in reserve for me, I know not!”

This soliloquy, being overheard by some bystanders, was communicated to

the king, who, bitterly reproaching himself for having so rashly acted,

at once released the good Setti and his wife, and caused the ungrateful

blind man to be burnt in the kiln.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Thus you see, my lord,” added the _Fourth Minister_, “how nearly that

king had plunged into a gulf of crime by his rashness. Therefore, my

most noble king, I would respectfully and humbly request you to consider

well the case of Bodhaditya, and punish him severely if he be found

really guilty.” Having thus spoken, he obtained leave to depart.



       *       *       *       *       *



The night was now over: darkness, the harbourer of vice, had fled away;

the day dawned. King Alakésa left his bedchamber, bathed and made his

religious ablutions, and after breakfasting summoned a council of all his

father’s old ministers and advisers. Alakésa took his seat in the midst

of the assembly: anger was clearly visible in his countenance; his eyes

had lost their natural expression and had turned very red; his breath

was as hot as that of a furnace. He thus addressed them: “Know ye all,

the ministers of my father and of myself, that last night, during the

first watch, my First Minister, Bodhaditya, while I and my queen were

asleep in our chamber, came and touched with his finger the bosom of my

queen. Consider well the gravity of this crime, and express your opinions

as to what punishment he merits.” Thus spake King Alakésa; but all the

ministers, not knowing what answer to return, hung down their heads in

silence. Among those present was an aged minister named _Manuniti_, who

called Bodhaditya to his side and privately learned the whole story. He

then humbly bowed before the king, and thus spake: “Most noble king, men

are not always wise; and, before replying to your majesty’s question, I

beg permission to relate in your presence the story of a king in whose

reign a certain benevolent action was repaid with disgrace and ignominy:





_Story of the Wonderful Mango Fruit_.



On the banks of the Kávéri there was a city called Tiruvidaimarudur,

where ruled a king named Chakraditya. In that city there lived a poor

Bráhman and his wife, who, having no children, brought up in their house

a young parrot as tenderly as if it had been their own offspring. One

day the parrot was sitting on the roof of the house, basking itself in

the morning sun, when a large flock of parrots flew past, talking to

each other about certain mango fruits. The Bráhman’s parrot asked them

what were the peculiar properties of those fruits, and was informed that

beyond the seven oceans there was a great mango tree, the fruit of which

gave perpetual youth to the person who ate of it, however old and infirm

he might be. On hearing of this wonder the Bráhman’s parrot requested

permission to accompany them, which being granted, they all continued

their flight. When at length they arrived at the mango tree, all ate of

its fruit; but the Bráhman’s parrot reflected: “It would not be right

for me to eat of this fruit; I am still young, while my adopted parents,

the poor Bráhman and his wife, are very old. So I shall give them this

fruit, and they will become young and blooming by eating it.” And that

same evening the good parrot brought the fruit to the Bráhman, and

explained to him its extraordinary properties. But the Bráhman thought

within himself: “I am a beggar. What although I should become young and

live for ever or should die this very moment? Our king is very good and

charitable. If such a great man should eat of this fruit and renew his

youth, he would confer the greatest benefits on mankind. Therefore I will

give this mango to our good king.”



In pursuance of this self-denying resolution, the poor Bráhman proceeded

to the palace and presented the fruit to the king, at the same time

relating how he had obtained it, and its qualities. The king richly

rewarded the Bráhman for his gift and sent him away. Then he began

to reflect thus: “Here is a fruit which can bestow perpetual youth

on the person who eats it. I should gain this great boon for myself

alone, and what happiness could I expect in such circumstances, without

corresponding friends and subjects? I shall therefore not eat this mango

fruit, but plant it carefully in my garden, and it will in time become a

tree, which will bear much fruit having the same wonderful virtue, and my

subjects shall, every one, eat of the fruit and, with myself, be endowed

with everlasting youth.” So calling his gardener the king gave him the

fruit and he planted it in the royal presence. In due course of time the

fruit grew into a fine tree, and during the spring season it began to bud

and blossom and bear fruit. The king, having fixed upon an auspicious

day for cutting one of the mango fruits, gave it to his domestic

chaplain, who was ninety years old, in order that his youth should be

renewed. But no sooner had the priest tasted it than he fell down dead.

At this unexpected calamity the king was both astonished and deeply

grieved. When the old priest’s wife heard of her husband’s sudden death,

she came and prayed the king to allow her to perform _sati_ with him on

the same funeral pyre, which increased the king’s sorrow; but he gave her

the desired permission, and himself superintended all the ceremonies of

the cremation.



King Chakraditya then sent for the poor Bráhman and demanded of him

how he had dared to present a poisonous fruit to his king. The Bráhman

replied: “My lord, I brought up a young parrot in my house, in order to

console me for having no son. That parrot brought me the fruit one day,

and told me of its wonderful properties. Believing that the parrot spoke

truth, I presented it to your majesty, never for a moment suspecting it

to be poisonous.” The king listened to the poor Bráhman’s words, but

thought that the priest’s death should be avenged. So he consulted his

ministers, who recommended, as a slight punishment, that the Bráhman

should be deprived of his left eye. This was done accordingly, and on

his return home, when his wife saw his condition, she asked the reason

of such mutilation. “My dear,” said he, “the parrot we have fostered

so tenderly is the cause of this.” And they resolved to break the

neck of the treacherous bird. But the parrot, having overheard their

conversation, thus addressed them: “My kind foster parents, everyone must

be rewarded for the good actions or punished for the evil deeds of his

previous life.[100] I brought you the fruit with a good intention, but

my sins in my former life have given it a different effect. Therefore, I

pray you to kill me and bury me with a little milk in a pit. And, after

my funeral ceremony is over, I request you to undertake a pilgrimage to

Banáres to clear yourself of your sins.” So the old Bráhman and his wife

killed their pet parrot and buried it as directed, after which, overcome

with grief, they set out on a pilgrimage to the holy city.



Meanwhile the king commanded his gardener to set guards over the

poison-tree, and to allow no one to eat of its fruit; and all the

inhabitants soon came to know that the king had a mango tree in his

garden, the fruit of which was deadly poison. Now there was in the city

an old washerwoman, who had frequent quarrels with her daughter-in-law,

and one day, being weary of her life, she left the house, threatening

to eat of the poison-tree and die. The young parrot who was killed for

having brought the poisonous mango fruit was re-born as a green parrot,

and was waiting an opportunity to demonstrate the harmless nature of the

tree; and when he saw the old woman approach with a determination to

put an end to her life by eating of its fruit, he plucked one with his

beak and dropped it down before her. The old woman rejoiced that Fate

sanctioned her death, and greedily ate the fruit, when, lo! instead of

dying she became young and blooming again. Those who had seen her leave

the house a woman over sixty years of age were astonished on seeing her

return as a handsome girl of sixteen and learning that the wonderful

transformation was caused by the supposed poisonous mango tree. The

strange news soon reached the king, who, in order to test the tree still

farther, ordered another fruit of it to be brought and gave it to a

goldsmith of more than ninety years of age, who had embezzled some gold

which had been entrusted to him to make into ornaments for the ladies of

the palace, and was on that account undergoing imprisonment.[101] When he

had eaten the fruit, he, in his turn, became a young man of sixteen.



The king was now convinced that the fruit of this mango tree, so far from

being poisonous, had the power of converting decrepit age into lusty and

perennial youth. But how did the old priest die by eating of it? It was

by a mere accident. One day a huge serpent was sleeping on a branch of

the mango tree, and its head was placed over a fruit: poison dropped from

its mouth and fell on the rind of that fruit. The gardener, who had no

knowledge of this, when asked to bring a fruit for the priest, happened

to bring the one on which the poison had fallen, and the priest having

eaten it died. And now the king caused proclamation to be made throughout

his kingdom that all who pleased might come and partake of the mango

fruit, and everyone ate of it and became young. But King Chakraditya’s

heart burnt within him at the remembrance of his ill-treatment of the

poor Bráhman, who had returned with his wife from Banáres. So he sent for

him, explained his mistake, and gave him a fruit to eat, which having

tasted, the aged Bráhman became young, and his eye was also restored to

him. But the greatest loss of all, that of the parrot who brought the

fruit from beyond the seven oceans, remained irreparable.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Thus, my lord,” continued the aged minister, _Manuniti_, “it behoves

us not to act precipitately in this affair of Bodhaditya, which we must

carefully sift before expressing our opinion as to the punishment he may

deserve at your majesty’s hands.”



       *       *       *       *       *



When Manuniti had concluded his story of the wonderful mango fruit, King

Alakésa ordered his four ministers to approach the throne, and then, with

an angry countenance, he thus addressed Bodhaditya: “What excuse have you

for entering my bedchamber without permission, and thus violating the

rules of decency?” The _First Minister_ humbly begged leave to relate

to his majesty a story of how a Bráhman fed a hungry traveller, and had

afterwards to endure the infamy of having caused that traveller’s death,

and on King Alakésa signifying his consent, thus began:





_The Story of the Poisoned Food_.



There was a city called Vijayanagara, to the north of which flowed a

small river with topes[102] on both banks. One day a young Bráhman

pilgrim came and sat down to rest by the side of the stream, and,

finding the place very cool and shady, he resolved to bathe, perform his

religious ablutions, and make his dinner off the rice which he carried

tied up in a bundle. Three days before there had come to the same spot

an old Bráhman, whose years numbered more than threescore and ten; he

had quarrelled with his family, and fled from his house to die. Since

he reached that place he had tasted no food, and the young pilgrim

found him lying in a pitiable state, and placed near him a portion of

his rice. The old man arose, and proceeded to the rivulet in order to

wash his feet and hands, and pronounce a holy incantation or two before

tasting the food. While thus engaged, a kite, carrying in its beak a

huge serpent, alighted upon the tree at the foot of which was the rice

given by the pilgrim to the old man, and while the bird was feasting

on the serpent, some of its poison dropped on the rice; and the old

Bráhman, in his hunger, did not observe it on his return; he greedily

devoured some of the rice, and instantly fell down dead. The young

pilgrim, seeing him prone on the ground, ran to help him, but found that

life was gone; and, concluding that the old man’s hasty eating after

his three days’ fast must have caused his death, and being unwilling to

leave his corpse to be devoured by kites and jackals, he determined to

cremate it before resuming his journey. With this object he ran to the

neighbouring village, and reporting to the people what had occurred on

the tope, requested their assistance in the cremating of the old man’s

body. The villagers, however, suspected that the young pilgrim had killed

and robbed the old Bráhman; so they laid hold of him, and, after giving

him a severe flogging, imprisoned him in the village temple of Kálí.

Alas, what a reward was this for his kind hospitality! and how was he

repaid for his beneficence! The unhappy pilgrim gave vent to his sorrows

in the form of verses in praise of the goddess in whose temple he was

a prisoner; for he was a great pandit, versed in the four Vedas,[103]

and the six Sastras,[104] and the sixty-four varieties of knowledge.

On hearing the pilgrim’s verses, the rage of the goddess descended on

the villagers who had so rashly accused and punished him for a crime

of which he was innocent. Suddenly the whole village was destroyed by

fire, and the people lost all their property and were houseless. In

their extremity they went to the temple of Kálí, and humbly requested

the goddess to inform them of the cause of the calamity which had thus

unexpectedly come upon them. The goddess infused herself into the person

of one of the villagers, and thus responded: “Know ye, unkind villagers,

that ye have most unjustly scourged and imprisoned in our presence

an innocent, charitable, and pious Bráhman. The old man died from the

effects of poison, which dropped from a serpent’s mouth on some rice

at the foot of a tree when it was being devoured by a kite. Ye did not

know of this; nevertheless, ye have maltreated a good man without first

making due inquiry as to his guilt or innocence. For this reason we

visited your village with this calamity. Beware, and henceforward avoid

such sins.” So saying, Kálí departed from the person through whom she had

manifested herself.[105] Then the villagers perceived the grievous error

into which they had fallen. They released the good pilgrim and implored

his forgiveness, which he readily granted. And thus was an innocent man

charged with murder in return for his benevolent actions.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Even so,” continued Bodhaditya, “my most noble sovereign, I have

this day had to endure the infamy of having violated the zanána for

saving your valuable life.” He then sent for a thief who was undergoing

imprisonment, and gave him the handful of rice which he had the

preceding day snatched from the king at dinner, and the thief having

eaten it instantly died.[106] He next caused a servant to go to the royal

bedchamber, and fetch from the canopy of the couch the pieces of the

serpent and his little finger-tip, which he laid before the wonder-struck

king and the counsellors, and then addressed his majesty as follows: “My

most noble king and ye wise counsellors, it is known to you all that we

four ministers keep watch over the town during the four quarters of the

night, and mine is the first watch. Well, while I was on duty the day

before yesterday, I heard a weeping voice in the direction of the temple.

I proceeded to the spot, and discovered the goddess sobbing bitterly. She

related to me how three calamities were awaiting the king on the morrow.

The first of them was the arrows despatched by the king of Vijayanajara

as sweetmeats to our sovereign; the second was the poisoned rice, and the

third the serpent. In trying to avert these calamities I have committed

the offence of entering the zanána.” And he thereupon explained the

affair from first to last.



King Alakésa and the whole assembly were highly delighted at the fidelity

and devotion of Bodhaditya; for it was now very evident that he had done

nothing amiss, but had saved the life of the king on three occasions,

and indeed also the life of the queen by wiping off the serpent’s poison

which had fallen on her bosom. Then Alakésa, in explanation of the

saying, “eating the protector,” related the





_Story of the Bráhman and the Rescued Snake_.



In the country of Uttara there lived a Bráhman named Kusalanadan, who had

a wife and six sons. All were in a state of prosperity for some time, but

the entrance of Saturn into the Bráhman’s horoscope turned everything

upside down. The once prosperous Bráhman became poor, and was reduced to

go to the neighbouring woods to gather bambú-rice with which to feed his

hungry family.[107] One day, while plucking the bambú ears, he saw a bush

close by in flames, in the midst of which was a serpent struggling for

its life. The Bráhman at once ran to its rescue, and stretching towards

it a long green stick the reptile crept on to it and escaped from the

flames, and then spread its hood and with a hissing sound approached

to sting its rescuer. The Bráhman began to weep and bewail his folly

in having saved the ungrateful creature, which being observed by the

serpent it asked him: “O Bráhman, why do you weep?” Said the old man:

“You now purpose to kill me; is this the reward for my having saved your

life?” “True, you have rescued me from a terrible death, but how am I

to appease my hunger?” replied the serpent. The Bráhman said: “You speak

of your hunger, but who is to feed my old wife and six hungry children

at my house?” The serpent, seeing the anxiety of the Bráhman, emitted a

precious gem from its hood,[108] and bade him take it home and give it to

his wife for household expenses, after which to return to the wood to be

devoured. The old man agreed, and, solemnly promising to return without

fail, went home. Having given the gem to his family, and told them of his

pact with the serpent, the Bráhman went back to the wood. The serpent had

meanwhile reflected upon his own base ingratitude. “Is it right,” thought

he, “to kill him who saved me from the flames? No! I shall rather perish

of hunger, if I cannot find a prey to-day, than slay my protector.” So,

when the old Bráhman returned, true to his word, the serpent presented

him with another valuable gem, and after expressing a wish that he should

live long and happily with his wife and children, went its own way, while

the Bráhman returned joyously to his home.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Even as the serpent purposed acting towards its benefactor,” continued

the king, “so did I, in my rage, intend putting to death my faithful

minister and the protector of my life, Bodhaditya; and to free myself

from this grievous sin there is no penance I should not undergo.”



       *       *       *       *       *



Then King Alakésa ordered a thousand Bráhmans to be fed every day

during his life, and many rich gifts to be distributed in temples as

atonement for his great error. And from that day Bodhaditya and his

three colleagues enjoyed still more of the royal favour. With those four

faithful ministers King Alakésa lived a most happy life and had a most

prosperous reign.



MAY THERE BE PROSPERITY TO ALL!









THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ.









THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ.





PROEM.



Every praise is due to that Almighty Creator whose mercy has given

grace and perfection to this garden of the earth. The flowers, like the

loveliest brides, reflect the lustre of his beauty; what power, then, has

the pen, a dry and withered reed as it is, to record his excellencies?



    Each blushing rose-leaf still exhales

    Those heavenly paradisal gales,

    Creator, which thy power proclaim,

    And make the bulbul praise thy name.

    The unexpanded buds confess

    Thy glory, and thy power express;

    And all the loveliness of earth

    From thee alone has taken birth.

    The light of Layla’s[1] beauty glows

    Apparent in the blushing rose;

    And in Narcissus still we find

    Sad Majnún’s hair tossed by the wind.[109]

    O if his mercy rain on me,

    ’Twill wash out my impurity,

    And crown my hopes with verdancy;

    But if his wrath its head should rear,

    ’Neath Ahmed’s[110] shade we must repair.



Thousands of blessings be upon that glorified Prophet, for whom the

heavens and the earth were created,[111] and the footmarks of whose

Burák[112] are impressed on the foreheads of the sun and moon. From the

whole collected works of his power, the world is but a single volume, and

life a single chapter. When he found the earth required his presence, he

left heaven, and, clothed in human flesh, descended here below. Let us

turn now to the praise of the king of heroes, namely, Alí.[113]



When the sun had irradiated the face of the earth I determined to dive

into the river of contemplation, with a view of gaining some pearls of

ideas therefrom. Many came to hand, yet I was wondering how to use them,

when a voice reached my ear, saying: “O thou, immersed in thought, these

gems befit only one, and he is Alí: may peace be on him! Open thy mouth

in his eulogy, because he is an emperor, the lustre of whose countenance

has cast a shade of paleness on the moon, and has redoubled the radiance

of the sun. If he would give loose to the reins of his charger in the

seventh heaven, it would raise disturbance among the stars.”



O King of kings, my request from thy mercy is, that thou wouldst prove a

shelter to me on the day of judgment, and admit me into the ranks of thy

white-faced servants. What shall I add, when it is presumption on my part

to address thee long!









CHAPTER I.



    THE ASTROLOGERS’ PREDICTION AT THE BIRTH OF OUR HERO—HIS FATHER

    IS STRUCK WITH BLINDNESS—HIS FOUR BROTHERS SET OUT IN QUEST

    OF THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ, TO RESTORE THEIR FATHER’S SIGHT—HE

    SECRETLY FOLLOWS THEM—THEY FALL INTO THE TOILS OF DILBAR, AN

    ARTFUL COURTESAN, WHO FLEECES THEM AND MAKES THEM PRISONERS.





They relate that a king named Zayn ul-Mulúk[114] reigned over a city

in the eastern part of Hindústán. He had already four sons who were

well trained in all the arts and sciences of the time and for courage

compared to Rustam,[115] when Providence bestowed on him a fifth, who

was beautiful as the moon in her fourteenth night, which scatters the

darkness of the world. Zayn ul-Mulúk, full of joy, gave on this occasion

a grand feast, and by the advice of the astrologers called the newly born

Táj ul-Mulúk.[116] The same astrologers, having cast the horoscope[117]

of the infant prince, declared that he would be endowed with courage

far superior to any other mortal, and that genii and men would be

subservient to him; but if unfortunately his father should look on him,

that very instant he would be deprived of his sight. The king, with

mixed sensations of pleasure and grief, gave order to his chief vazír

to put the child and his mother in a palace at some distance from the

court, which was done accordingly. After several years the prince became

accomplished in every science. Being a lover of sport, it chanced one day

that he went far into the thick of a forest in pursuit of a deer. True

it is that what is written by Fate can never be erased. It so happened

that the king was also hunting in the same forest that very day, and

encountered the prince. There is a well-known saying to the effect that

the wounded part is always sore, notwithstanding our efforts not to be

hurt again, and the fugitive slave, fly wherever he will, is sure to

be overtaken by his pursuer. The moment that the eyes of the king fell

upon his son he was struck blind. His minister at once divined the cause

of his blindness. The king observed, that the sight of a son generally

increases the light of his father’s eyes, but in his case the reverse

had occurred. Hence it was proper that such a son should be expelled the

realm, and the queen, his mother, made to sweep the apartments of his

haram.



Then physicians equal to Avicenna[118] in learning and skill were called

to remove the king’s blindness, and they all declared that the only

remedy was the Rose of Bakáwalí. Zayn ul-Mulúk despatched messengers

throughout the land to proclaim that whosoever should procure that

wonderful flower, or tell where it was to be found, should be handsomely

rewarded; but without success. Thus year followed year, the king passing

all his time lamenting and weeping, like Jacob when he mourned for

Joseph, and like the prophet Job, waiting with impatient anxiety.[119]

At last his four sons besought him that they should be allowed to go in

quest of the Rose of Bakáwalí. The king at first refused, not wishing

that the bright lamps of his house should be exposed to dangers, but was

ultimately prevailed upon to yield to their entreaties, and gave order to

his vazír to prepare everything needful for their journey—money, beasts

of burden, tents, and attendants. The princes departed and traversed many

miles at random.



By accident they met their brother, Táj ul-Mulúk, who was dragging his

weary feet far away from his native land. He enquired who they were and

whither they were going. In reply they told him how Zayn ul-Mulúk, their

father, had lost his sight, and that they were journeying in search

of the Rose of Bakáwalí, prescribed for the removal of his blindness.

The prince on hearing this said to himself: “I must try my fortune and

experience on the touchstone of the gold of my fate. Perchance I shall

succeed in filling the skirt of my gown with the roses of my desire.”

Having thus resolved, he went to a nobleman named Syíd, who on looking at

him perceived that the light of his countenance surpassed the glory of

the sun, and the dark cluster of his locks, falling upon the fairness of

his forehead, resembled the gloom of the clouds passing over the lustre

of the moon. He asked him: “Who are you, and whence have you come?” Táj

ul-Mulúk answered: “I am a traveller far away from my country, with no

one to sympathise with me in my misfortunes, and none to cheer me with

the soothing music of the voice of a friend. There is no one to assist

and comfort me.” Syíd on hearing the words of this second Joseph[120] was

highly affected and agreed to befriend him.



It is related that Táj ul-Mulúk after a long journey reached the city of

Firdaus,[121] which was then governed by King Rizwán. It was evening.

Standing on the bank of a river, he intended to take up his abode in that

town for some time. When the sun had finished his diurnal travel, and

the moon, riding on her sable charger, had commenced her ramble in the

east, the four princes, mounted on their swift-footed horses, entered the

city. Their eyes fell on a splendid palace, every window of which was

hung with screens of the richest brocade. They asked one of the citizens:

“Whose palace is this?” He answered: “The owner of this mansion is Dilbar

Lakhí.”[122] The princes asked: “How has she obtained such a palace?”

And the man replied: “This lady is unequalled. In beauty and grace she

has no rival on this earth. The sun even would sacrifice himself on her

charms as the moth does on the light of the taper;[123] and the moon

would hide her diminished glory before the lustre of her charms. For

those who court her society she keeps a drum hung on the door, on beating

which, should they be rich enough to pay a lakh of rupís, they will

have the happiness of meeting her.” At these words, the young princes,

proud of their social position and wealth, wished to gratify their love

of pleasure, so they approached the door and loudly beat the drum. When

Dilbar heard the sound she could not contain her joy. “Well, well!” she

said, “since the prey seeks to enter my net, it must be caught. Women

of my trade are always in hopes that some one void of sense and with a

full purse will fall into their hands.” She quickly adorned herself with

rubies, emeralds, diamonds and pearls and sat down to receive the sons of

Zayn ul-Mulúk. She made them sit on a golden seat, and then rosy-cheeked

slave-girls came and presented them with wine in cups of gold, and with

different kinds of food in dishes of silver. When half of the night had

passed in drinking and talking, this artful woman proposed to them that

they should play at backgammon by way of amusement, and the princes

assented with pleasure. The board was brought, and she placed a lamp on

the head of a cat, which she had taken great pains to train up to her

designs, and staked a lakh of rupís on the first game. Before the night

was over the princes lost fifteen lakhs of rupís. In the morning they

took leave of Dilbar and returned to their tents. The following night

they again went to the mansion of Dilbar, and that designing woman won

from them not only all their money but also their horses, elephants,

and camels. Then she said to them: “Young men, seeing that nothing now

remains to you, I think you had better go home.” “No,” said they; “allow

us once more to hang on the scale of experiment the gold of our fortune.

If the scale incline to our side, we depart with all our property; if it

fall to your side, we lose everything and become your slaves.” Dilbar

accepted this proposal and in the twinkling of an eye won the game, and

thus became absolute mistress of the goods and persons of the sons of

Zayn ul-Mulúk, who were sent at once to keep company with many others in

the same predicament. The attendants of the four princes, on learning

their fate, like the petals of the rose which fall in autumn, were in

great trouble and excitement.









CHAPTER II.



    THE PRINCE DETERMINES TO RESCUE HIS BRETHREN—HE TAKES SERVICE

    WITH A NOBLEMAN, AND MAKES FRIENDS WITH DILBAR’S CONFEDERATE,

    BY WHOSE INSTRUCTIONS HE TURNS THE TABLES ON DILBAR, AND WINS

    ALL HER WEALTH AND HER OWN PERSON—HE TELLS DILBAR OF HIS DESIGN

    TO OBTAIN THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ, AND SHE WARNS HIM OF THE

    DANGERS HE MUST ENCOUNTER—HE RELATES THE STORY OF THE BRÁHMAN

    AND THE LION—DILBAR EXHORTS OUR HERO BEFORE HIS DEPARTURE.





Táj ul-Mulúk immediately formed the resolution to make an effort to save

his brothers. Full of this idea, he presented himself at the door of an

Amír and said to the porter: “I am a traveller without means, and wish to

enter the employment of your master, whose noble qualities I have heard

much praised.” The Amír admitted Táj ul-Mulúk into his presence, and,

charmed with the beauty and dignity of his features, willingly accepted

his offer, and from that day treated him with increasing kindness. When

Táj ul-Mulúk had passed several months in the service of the Amír, and

had saved a considerable sum of money, he said to his master one day that

a friend of his had just arrived in the town, and he was desirous that

he should be permitted to go and see him every day and pass a few hours

in his company. This was most cordially granted, and the prince went

daily to the house of the backgammon players, from whom he learned all

the rules of the game. When he thought he was able to play with Dilbar

he proceeded to her palace. An old woman, the confidante of Dilbar, who

did nothing without her advice, opened the door, and the prince threw

himself at her feet and burst into tears. She asked him who he was and

what he wanted. “Alas!” he cried, “I am an unhappy traveller, without

friends or acquaintances. I have no help but God in this town. My country

is far east of here. I had a grandmother, but God admitted her into

Paradise,[124] and I am left alone in this world of sorrow! I trace in

you a strong resemblance to her, hence have I fallen at your feet. If you

are pleased to look on me with an eye of kindness and have compassion on

my wretched condition, I offer to remain near you and to regard you as my

grandmother.” The tone of sincerity with which the prince uttered these

words made the heart of the old woman soft as wax. “My dear young man,”

said she to him, “I am also alone in the world. From this day, therefore,

I adopt you as my grandson.” Then he told her that he was engaged as a

servant and would not be able to see her every day, but he would come

as often as he possibly could. After this, Táj ul-Mulúk often visited

that old woman, and so flattered and wheedled her that he soon became

the confidant of her secrets. One day, after talking on indifferent

subjects, he asked her how it happened that all who played at backgammon

with Dilbar always lost. “My dear son,” replied she, “it is a very great

secret. Take good care never to repeat to anyone what I am going to tell

you. Dilbar has trained a cat and a mouse; she has accustomed the cat to

bear a lamp on her head and the mouse to lie concealed in the shade of

the lamp. When the dice do not turn up to suit Dilbar, the cat moves the

lamp and causes the shadow to go to and fro, while the mouse turns the

dice again, and in this way Dilbar wins without anyone of those who have

played with her being able to understand the reason.” Táj ul-Mulúk went

to the bazár and bought a weasel, which he trained to lie in his sleeve,

and, when he snapped his fingers, to come out suddenly, like a little

panther. Then he visited the old woman and said to her: “I am weary of

service, and if you lend me a thousand rupís I will try to start some

business.” The old woman led him into a room, and, showing him all her

money, bade him take what he required. The prince was satisfied with a

thousand rupís. Returning to his master, he told him that a friend was

to be married that day, and he wished to attend the nuptials if the Amír

would give him suitable clothes. The Amír at once consented, and even

allowed the prince to take one of his best horses.



Táj ul-Mulúk, richly dressed and mounted upon a superb steed, proceeded

to the house of the artful courtesan. He was no sooner introduced to her

than the gambler of the sky closed the chessboard of the sun, in the

house of the west, and threw upon the table of the east the golden dice

of the stars.[125] “I am told,” said he, “that you are fond of playing

backgammon, and if you please, we can have a few games.” Dilbar at first

begged to be excused, but in the end consented to play, and, as usual,

placed the lamp upon the head of the cat, staked a thousand rupís, and

threw the dice. The sháh-záda[126] allowed her to win the first game

with the aid of the cat and the mouse. At the second, as fortune did

not turn in her favour, the cat and the mouse were about to begin their

old tricks, when Táj ul-Mulúk snapped his fingers, and the weasel ran

furiously out of its master’s sleeve, whereupon the mouse disappeared

like lightning, and the cat astonished, fled like the wind, overturning

the lamp. The sháh-záda pretended to be in a great rage, and exclaimed:

“Artful woman! What tricks are you playing? How is it that you have not

a proper lamp in a house so elegantly furnished?” At these words Dilbar

was confused, and beads of perspiration appeared on her brow. She caused

a candlestick to be brought and then the game was resumed. In his turn

the prince had the advantage, and gained that night seven crores of

rupís. In the morning he told Dilbar that he was obliged to return and

breakfast with the king, and went away, leaving with her the money he had

won, and promising to come again at night.



The prince came at the time appointed, and after they had partaken of

some food, they began to play for a crore of rupís, and by midnight he

had won all Dilbar’s hoarded money, which amounted to one hundred crores

of rupís.[127] Dilbar, in despair, wished to play next for her furniture,

in the hope of winning, and afterwards recovering what she had lost. But

she was not any more fortunate than before, and the prince said: “Well,

what shall we do now? Do you wish to play once more with me? If I lose,

I will give you a thousand rupís; if I win, you will give up all the

princes you have kept prisoners by deceit and cheating.” Dilbar agreed

to the proposal, and in a twinkling the sháh-záda had again won the

game. Then she said: “If I win, I will keep all that I have lost; if I

lose, not only will everything belong to you, but I shall be your slave.”

In this last throw fortune was once more propitious to Táj ul-Mulúk.

“Happy young man!” she cried, “with the help of God and your horoscope

you have made me your slave. That game which all the kings of the world

had played in vain throughout their lives is at last in thy hand. Now

consider this as thy house. Bind me to thee by the ties of wedlock, and

pass here the rest of thy days in affluence and grandeur.” “No, no,”

said the prince; “I cannot consent to it. An important affair occupies

my mind. If God grant me success in it, you also shall be happy. I exact

from you that you abandon the life you have been leading, and wait for

me twelve years, employing yourself in the service of the Most High.”

Dilbar earnestly implored him to confide his secret to her. “Listen,

then,” said he. “My name is Táj ul-Mulúk. I am the son of Zayn ul-Mulúk,

the king of an eastern country, who lost his sight by an accident, and

learned physicians have unanimously declared that his blindness can only

be cured by the Rose of Bakáwalí. My brothers set out in quest of this

marvellous flower. I was secretly with them, and when I learned that they

had been ensnared by thy wiles, I employed artifice against thee in my

turn, and thus have I overreached thee. I am determined to search for the

Rose of Bakáwalí, and if I succeed, all will be well, if not, I shall

give up life.” Hearing this Dilbar said: “Alas, what fanciful idea has

taken possession of thy reason? Know that the Rose of which you speak is

in the region of the sun, and not even a bird could succeed in reaching

it. Bakáwalí is the daughter of the king of the Jinn, and in her garden

is that flower. But it is guarded by thousands of _dívs_.[128] No mortal

can approach without their permission. O prince, do not expose yourself

to such dangers, for, as Sa’dí says:



    Although ’tis written, when ’tis doomed, we die,

    Yet in the dragon’s mouth, O wherefore fly?”[129]



Táj ul-Mulúk replied: “The God who changed into a garden of roses the

fire into which Nimrod caused Abraham to be cast[130] will crown my zeal

with success. The sons of men are inferior to dívs in strength, but they

are superior in wisdom; for God himself has said: ‘I have given glory to

the children.’





_Story of the Bráhman and the Lion._



“You may have heard that a Bráhman passing through a forest saw a lion

held fast by a rope and confined in a cage. On perceiving the Bráhman he

begged hard, and humbly said: ‘O Bráhman, if you will kindly release me

I will recompense you some day.’ The simple-minded Bráhman was affected

by the words of the lion; but, blind as he was to reason, he did not

consider that the lion was his enemy, and that no reliance could be

placed on his promises. He opened the door of the cage, unloosed the feet

of the lion, and set him at liberty. The bloodthirsty beast, as soon as

he found himself free, knocked down the Bráhman, and seizing him by the

throat carried him towards his den. The Bráhman cried: “O lion, I did a

good service for you in hopes of getting a fair return, but I see thy

intentions are evil.” The lion answered: ‘In my religion the return for

good is evil. If you do not believe me let us refer the question to some

one else, and whatever he says will decide the matter.’ That fool agreed.

In the forest there grew a tall and umbrageous banyan tree. The lion and

the Bráhman went under its branches and referred the matter to it. Said

the banyan: ‘The lion is in the right. I have always seen that the return

for good is evil. Hear, O Bráhman! I stand on one leg[131] and cast my

shade on every traveller that passes this way. But whoever takes shelter

in my shadow is sure, on departing, to pull off one of my branches, to

make use of it as a walking-stick in his hand. Now say, is not evil the

return of good?’ The lion asked: ‘Well, my friend, what sayest thou?’ The

Bráhman answered: ‘Refer the matter to some one else.’ The lion proceeded

a few steps farther and questioned the road on the subject. The road

answered: ‘The lion is right. Listen, O Bráhman. The traveller deviating

from his path searches for me with the greatest care, and when he finds

me I lead him to his home. But in return he defiles me.’ The beast went

on again and saw a jackal on a rising ground. He was about to run away,

when the lion called out: ‘O jackal, do not be afraid. I have come to

refer a question to you.’ Said the jackal: ‘You may say what you please,

but keep your distance; for if you approach, I am afraid your presence

will render me senseless.’ The lion said: ‘This Bráhman has done good to

me, and I intend to return evil to him. What sayst thou in the matter?’

The jackal replied: ‘I cannot quite understand what you say. How can a

man who is so insignificant do any service to a lion, who is styled the

monarch of the forest? I can never believe such a thing until I have seen

it with my own eyes.’ The lion said: ‘Come on, and I will show it to

you.’ So the lion and the Bráhman proceeded and the jackal followed. When

they came to the cage the Bráhman said: ‘O jackal, the lion was fast

bound to this, and I freed him. What is your decision?’ Said the jackal:

‘How could such a small cage hold so great a lion? If he would re-enter

it before me and lie down as before, and then if you should free him I

shall believe what you say.’ The lion entered the cage and the Bráhman

commenced tying him. The jackal then remarked: ‘If you make the slightest

difference in adjusting the knots, I shall be unable to decide the case.’

The Bráhman bound the lion strongly, and, having fastened the door of

the cage, said to the jackal: ‘In that state I found him.’ ‘Fool that

you were,’ exclaimed the jackal, ‘to expect good from such a powerful

beast. It is laying the axe to your own root to think so. What need have

you to give freedom to such an enemy? Go your way now, for the foe is

overcome.’[132]



“O beloved,” continued the prince, “whoever gives freedom to complaints

and impatience, which are like the lion confined in the cage of the body,

and whoever, showing kindness to them, removes the string of resignation,

always suffers from his own folly. O Dilbar, I have related this fable

to show that the body cannot overcome the mind. It is proper for thee

to release the princes of the East and the West, and God will release

thee from the pains of hell. But until my return be very careful of my

brothers. And now give me leave to depart.”



Dilbar Lakhí answered:



    “Do not leave me sad and lonely;

      Unattended, why depart?

    Wherefore grieve a heart that loves thee?

      Wherefore crush this widowed heart?

    As the shell is thirsty for the

      Drops, that make it teem with pearl,[133]

    So my heart is longing for thee,

      While thy sails thou dost unfurl.

    Lo, the storm blows fierce and furious,

      Leave not thou the joys of home:

    Stranger to the world, O wherefore,

      Joseph-wise, in exile roam?

    Long and distant is the journey;

      Hear my words, and stay—O stay!

    Like the moth I’m fluttering round thee,

      Whilst you wish to pass away.



Beloved, take warning from what you have seen. The princely mind was pure

and clean; and when it fell in the world, the world was dazzled with thy

brightness, and became blind. Arise now, and go after the attainment of

thy desire; but never allow thyself to be prevailed on to play at hazard

with the world, who always keeps her backgammon-board open for all.

Beware, lest, through the assistance of the cat of deceit and the mouse

of cunning, she turn the dice in her own favour. Then the treasures of

thy faith will be exhausted, and she will keep thee in bonds for ever.

If by the help of the weasel of patience you will expose and overcome

her wiles, she will then try (she who has subdued kings and mighty

sovereigns) to captivate thee by her charms, declaring at the same time

that she will become thy slave. But should you turn away your gaze from

her, you will certainly succeed in your undertaking.”[134]









CHAPTER III.



    SHOWING HOW THE PRINCE IS HELPED IN HIS QUEST BY A FRIENDLY

    DEMON—MARRIES MAHMUDA, A BEAUTIFUL GIRL—REACHES THE GARDEN OF

    BAKÁWALÍ AND PLUCKS THE ROSE—SEEING THE FAIRY BAKÁWALÍ ASLEEP,

    FALLS IN LOVE WITH HER—RETURNS WITH MAHMUDA AND REJOINS DILBAR,

    WHO LIBERATES HIS BRETHREN, BEFORE THE THREE SET OUT FOR HIS

    OWN COUNTRY—ON THE WAY HE IS DEPRIVED OF THE ROSE BY HIS

    BRETHREN, WHO RETURN HOME, AND BY MEANS OF THE FLOWER RESTORE

    THEIR FATHER’S SIGHT.





It is related that Táj ul-Mulúk assumed the garb of a darvesh, rubbed

ashes all over his body, and, pronouncing the name of God,[135] set out

on his journey. After some days he entered a forest, so dark on account

of the number of trees in it that night could not be distinguished from

day. But the prince was far from losing courage, thinking it was only a

wave of the ocean of troubles which he had to traverse. “I must,” said

he, “draw closer the girdle of resolution, and, like the salamander,

plunge into this furnace.”[136] He then penetrated into the forest,

as dark as ignorance, and swarming with wild beasts of every kind,

especially ravenous dragons with gaping mouths. He wandered for a long

time, to the right and then to the left; his body was torn by the sharp

thorns of thickets and his feet were pierced by those of the babúl, to

such an extent that he was covered with blood. The end of the forest was

only reached after great difficulty, and prostrating himself before God,

he prayed most earnestly. Then continuing his way he saw a dív sitting,

whom he might have taken for a mountain. When the dív arose, his head

touched the sky, and from his voice like thunder the prince heard the

following words: “Young man, how comes it that, of your own free will,

you leave the city of life and journey with the feet of your desires in

the path of death?” “Learn, you who question me,” replied Táj ul-Mulúk,

pale and trembling, “that the life of this fleeting world is a misfortune

for me. If it were otherwise I should never throw myself into the jaws

of death, and should not find myself in the coils of such a sanguinary

being as you. Free me, then, with all speed from the torments which I

am suffering; for one hour of this existence is like a hundred years

of anguish.” The dív was moved to pity. “Listen, son of Adam,” said

he. “Very far from doing you an injury, I wish to take you under my

protection and lend you my aid.” Thus reassured, Táj ul-Mulúk remained

with the dív, who showed him much friendship, and they were soon as

thick as milk and sugar. One day the dív, being well pleased with a meal

which the sháh-záda had prepared for him,[137] pressed him to disclose

his wishes, swearing by Sulayman[138] that he would accomplish them for

him. Then Táj ul-Mulúk told him that he was most desirous of entering

the country of Bakáwalí, upon which the dív sighed heavily, smote his

own head, and appeared agitated with the utmost grief. “What do you ask,

my young man?” said he. “The country of which you speak is that of the

king of the fairies, and it is guarded day and night on all sides by ten

thousand of his slaves. How could I get you there? And yet I must keep my

oath.” He then uttered a loud cry, and presently another dív appeared, to

whom he communicated the sháh-záda’s desire, adding: “Thou hast the power

to grant it, and I ask the favour of thee, seeing that I am pledged by a

terrible oath to aid him.”



Now this second dív had a sister named Hammála,[139] who was the chief

guard of the country, and eighteen thousand dívs were her subordinates.

He wrote at once recommending the prince to her, and giving the letter

to a messenger told Táj ul-Mulúk to be guided by him. This dív took the

prince on his left arm and with his right protected him from the rays of

the sun. Thus they proceeded on their way, and arrived in the presence of

Hammála, to whom the dív consigned both the letter and the prince. She

said to the messenger: “If my brother had sent me a whole mine of red

sulphur, or even the ring of Sulayman, it could not have given me more

pleasure than I now feel.” Then she wrote a reply to her brother, saying:

“I once had occasion to travel through the habitations of man, and thence

I brought away a girl matchless in beauty, the daughter of a king. Her I

adopted as my own daughter and called her Mahmúda.[140] She is now in her

fourteenth year, and bright in beauty as the moon when half-full. For her

it is evident that God has sent this youth—thanks be to the Lord.” She

then dismissed the messenger with this letter, and Mahmúda was at once

married to Táj ul-Mulúk.



For some time the sháh-záda lived with his protectress and Mahmúda, but

without performing his marital duties, and one day when his spouse

complained to him of his indifference, he informed her that an important

matter occupied his thoughts. “I have made a vow,” said he, “to forego

the pleasures of this world, even lawful ones, until I have attained my

desire.” “Be of good cheer,” rejoined Mahmúda. “If it please God, I will

untie the knot of the thread of hope with the nail of prudence; and I

will tell you where to find the town of Bakáwalí.” On the morrow Hammála

took Mahmúda on her knee, as usual, and overwhelmed her with caresses.

Mahmúda then said to her: “My dear mother, I have a favour to ask of you.

Will you grant it?” “Yes, my child,” said Hammála, kissing her head and

eyes. “This it is, then: the sháh-záda wishes to visit the kingdom of

Bakáwalí; try to satisfy him.” Hammála at first raised up difficulties,

but when she saw that her adopted child would not give up her idea, she

called one of her followers and ordered him to secretly conduct the

prince into the garden of Bakáwalí, which he did accordingly.



When Táj ul-Mulúk entered this wondrous garden, he found that the ground

was of gold, the walls which surrounded it were studded with the rubies

of Badakshán,[141] and the carnelians of Yaman. Through parterres of

emeralds flowed streams of rosewater in beds of topaz.[142] Beautiful

indeed was that grove. The flowers were so bright that had the sun beheld

them he would have been covered with the perspiration of shame. The

clusters of grapes there, vieing in colour with the emerald, were like

the Pleiades in heaven; and the narcissus was more graceful than the

flowing ringlets of the most charming damsel. That garden! If a drop of

its dew were to fall in the ocean it would make the fishes exhale the

perfume of roses; and if the sky should hear a single note of its birds,

it would cease revolving, and stand still to listen to it.[143] If Venus

heard it, she would dance with joy, and fall on earth in company with

the moon. Redder than the fairest fruits was the colour of the fruits

growing there; and much more graceful than the tallest form were the

cypress-trees that waved therein.[144]



The prince gazed on all this with pleasure. Suddenly his eyes fell on

an outer hall, made of ruby and jasper, inlaid with a pond full of

the purest rose-water. Its sides were studded with the most precious

stones, and in the middle of it bloomed a lovely flower, delicate to

view, and most pleasing in fragrance. The prince concluded that this

was the Rose of Bakáwalí. Undressing himself, he plunged into the pond,

and obtained the flower of his fondest wishes. Investing himself again

with his garments, he deposited the flower most carefully in his pocket,

and turned his steps towards the palace of the princess. A magnificent

structure composed of ruby met his eyes. Its doors beamed with the lustre

which once shone on Mount Sinai.[145] Attracted by its beauty the prince

entered. Every hall was made of rubies. The windows were ornamented with

screens of the richest embroidery, the work upon which appeared as stars

sprinkled on the face of the heavens. Táj ul-Mulúk advanced; but what was

his surprise when he perceived a magnificent couch on which was reposing

a slender beauty, fast locked in the arms of sleep! Her hair was

dishevelled. Slight marks of lamp-black were observable round her closed

eyes,[146] her bodice was loosened, her waistband very much removed from

its proper place, and her trouser-sleeves were pulled up, and its bunches

of strings hanging loosely. With her fair hands gracefully laid upon her

forehead, she was sleeping the sleep of innocent youth. The ruddiness of

her cheeks brightened the world and cast the sun and moon into the shade.

Those black eyes would have shamed even the narcissus, and the redness

of her lips would make the heart of the tulip to bleed. The arch of her

eyebrows made the crescent hide its face, and the locks of night paled

before the shady blackness of her raven hair.



    Tall as the cypress of the lawn was she,

      And sweet as honey were her lips so red;

    If seen in all her native brilliancy,

      The stars would lose the lustre which they shed.

    Bright as the pearls her shining teeth were seen;

      Radiant her charms as Pleiades on high;

    She was a rose, the fairest rose, I ween,

      For whom a thousand nightingales would die.



Táj ul-Mulúk was staggered at the sight of so much beauty; but, on

regaining some degree of strength, he approached the couch and softly

recited these verses:



    “If thy charms thou would’st discover,

      Stars would all their light forget,

    And the night would grow the darker,

      Gazing on those locks of jet.

    Glowing in the flush of beauty,

      Careless of the world art thou;

    What am I?—The mightiest princes

      Will before thy beauty bow!”



In brief, the prince thought within himself that it would be well to

leave some token of his visit. So he gently took a ring off one of her

fingers and put his own in its place, murmuring the following lines:



    “Like the tulip, lo! I go, a spot upon my suffering heart,

    Dust upon my head, and in my heart a sharp and rankling dart.

    Like me in this scene of woe, who suffers more from Fortune’s power?

    In this garden I have entered, and I go without a flower.”



While she was yet sleeping the prince departed, and returned to the abode

of Hammála, who was waiting for him in the most intense anxiety. When

she saw him she smiled with the sincerest pleasure, and passed the time

in merriment and joy. And when the bride of day had hidden her blushing

face in the bed of midnight, and evening had shown her murky locks to the

world,[147] the prince retired and that night showed every endearment to

his spouse. Thus several days passed in pleasure.



One night Táj ul-Mulúk sat in the chamber of Mahmúda and conversed with

her to this effect: “O source of all my happiness! although I here enjoy

comfort and everything is ready for my convenience, yet I am longing for

my native land.” “Rest contented,” she replied, “and to-morrow I shall

ask leave to depart.” Next morning, as usual, Hammála tenderly embraced

them, but perceiving them to look sad, she asked them: “What can I do to

please you, my darlings? Fear not a refusal.” Mahmúda answered: “Your

tender care anticipates all our desires; but there is one thing we do

not find here, namely, the company of beings like ourselves; and so,

notwithstanding the violent grief we feel in separating from you, the

fire of the love of country reduces to ashes our repose and necessitates

the employment of the water of return.” Hammála, greatly afflicted by

this sudden declaration, cried out: “What! have I brought you up with

so much care, in the hope that you would be my faithful companion, and

now you wish to leave me! Alas, you would never have thought of it, if

I had not married you to the sháh-záda. But it is all my own fault.”

Yet seeing that they would not willingly remain with her, she summoned

a dív, and ordered him to carry the pair to a place which Táj ul-Mulúk

would indicate to him, and bring back a letter intimating their safe

arrival. Then Hammála plucked two hairs out of her head, and giving one

to the prince and the other to Mahmúda she said: “When you need me, put

this hair in the fire and I will at once hasten to you with a thousand

dívs,”[148] and having received their adieus, a gigantic dív appeared,

who was swifter in his course than the lightning, and told them he was

at their service. “Conduct us then,” said the prince, “to the city of

Firdaus, and into the garden of the courtesan Dilbar Lakhí.” The dív

took them upon his shoulders, and quick as thought deposited them in the

place indicated. Táj ul-Mulúk then dismissed his guide with a letter to

Hammála, announcing their safe arrival.



When the beautiful Dilbar heard the voice of the sháh-záda she ran out to

meet him, and throwing herself at his feet, returned thanks to God for

his safe return. He told all that had occurred to him, and introduced to

her Mahmúda, whom Dilbar Lakhí tenderly embraced in token of her sincere

affection. After a few days Táj ul-Mulúk made preparations to return to

his own country. At the moment of his departure, Dilbar, after having

had some conversation with him, ordered his brothers to be brought,

and he, who was supposed not to know them, begged her to restore them

to liberty, as she had already done to the princes of the east and the

west who had fallen into her power; but she consented only provided she

should be allowed to brand them on the back in token of the state of

slavery to which they had been reduced. The four sons of Zayn ul-Mulúk

had no alternative but to submit to be thus branded; but when they had

withdrawn Táj ul-Mulúk ordered each of them to be given a dress of honour

and a lakh of rupís to defray the expenses of their journey, and then

they set out for their native land. He then sent away Dilbar and Mahmúda,

directing them to wait for him in a certain city, and himself secretly

followed his brothers in order to discover their intentions.



Táj ul-Mulúk stopped at the same inn as his brothers, and, concealed in a

corner of the room, he heard their boasting and falsehood with reference

to the Rose of Bakáwalí. He waited patiently for some time, but at last

could endure it no longer, and drawing near them he said to others who

were present: “What these men say is false; for I alone possess the

Rose of Bakáwalí, and can show it to you.” Then untying his girdle he

drew from it the flower and exhibited it to the impostors, who in fury

snatched it from him saying: “Let us see if you speak the truth; for if

you deceive us we shall make you pay dearly for it.” They caused a blind

man to be brought in, applied the rose to his eyes, and instantly his

sight was restored. Their astonishment and confusion were unbounded, but

they not only refused to return the flower to Táj ul-Mulúk, but showered

blows upon him and chased him from their presence. Then they joyfully

continued their journey, and on reaching the confines of their country

they sent a messenger before them to announce their return. This news

filled the good king, their father, with joy. To do them honour, he made

a journey of several days to meet them.[149] Zayn ul-Mulúk embraced his

four sons and kissed them affectionately. On their part, they gave him

the Rose of Bakáwalí, which when he placed to his eyes rendered them as

bright as the stars. He then offered thanks to God that he had recovered

his sight by means of the flower, and in celebration of the happy event

ordered all his subjects, rich and poor, to keep open for a whole year

the door of joy and pleasure, and to close the door of sadness and

sorrow.









CHAPTER IV.



    BAKÁWALÍ, ON AWAKING, DISCOVERS THAT HER ROSE HAS BEEN STOLEN,

    SETS OUT IN SEARCH OF THE THIEF DISGUISED AS A MAN, AND TAKES

    SERVICE WITH THE PRINCE’S FATHER, THE KING OF THE EAST—THE

    FAIRIES BUILD A GRAND PALACE FOR THE PRINCE, LIKE THAT OF

    BAKÁWALÍ—THE KING HEARS OF THE NEW PALACE—STORY OF THE PRINCESS

    AND THE DEMON WHO EXCHANGED SEXES—THE PRINCE’S FATHER AND

    BRETHREN, WITH BAKÁWALÍ (DISGUISED), VISIT HIM AT HIS PALACE,

    AND HE DISCLOSES HIMSELF.





Let us now return to Bakáwalí, whom we left asleep on her beautiful

couch. When she awoke she fastened her bodice, put her dress in order,

drew the comb through her hair, and went to the lake where grew her

cherished Rose. On reaching the bank she discovered that the precious

flower was gone, and at the same moment perceived that she wore a

different ring from her own. “O Heaven!” cried she, “is it a dream or the

effect of magic? But no; only a man could have done this deed, for none

but a human being could elude the vigilance of the dívs. None is equal

to thee in daring, and an ordinary man I am sure thou art not. Gold and

silver are stolen by thieves; but thou art not a common robber. If I

could but see thee I would lay thy hands on my eyes and kiss them over

and over. Thou hast made a mine in my bosom and stolen away my heart. To

thy satisfaction thou hast not seen me; but I doubt not thou hast feasted

thy eyes with a sight of these lips, and who knows, but thou mayest

have tasted the honey therefrom? Thou hast stolen the gold, and the

casket only is here.” Bakáwalí then returned into her palace and summoned

her attendants in order to have them punished for their carelessness,

forgetting the maxim that “when the arrow of Fate is shot none can arrest

it with the shield of prudence,” and said to them: “If you wish to live,

bring the thief to me immediately.” They did as desired, but no trace

whatever of the thief could be found. Bakáwalí resolved to go herself

in quest of him. Rendering herself invisible to all eyes, she reached

the capital of Zayn ul-Mulúk, where she beheld everywhere preparations

being made for a festival, and heard on all sides the sound of musical

instruments. Curious to know the cause of these rejoicings, she assumed

the form of a young man, and inquired of the first person she met: “What

is the reason of the mirth which prevails among the inhabitants of this

city?” “The king,” replied the citizen, “was blind; but his sons, after

searching a long time and coming through unheard-of trials, have at

last succeeded in obtaining the Rose of Bakáwalí, which has restored

his sight. On this account the padisháh has ordered that every one

should give himself up to pleasure for a year, and that the sound of the

_naubat_[150] should everywhere be heard.”



Bakáwalí, delighted to hear tidings, at least, of her Rose, was in hopes

of soon discovering the person who had stolen it from her. Returning

to the bank of the river, she bathed in order to refresh herself after

the fatigue of her journey, and having dressed, she proceeded to the

royal palace. She was introduced to Zayn ul-Mulúk, who inquired of her

who she was, and whence and why she had come. Bakáwalí answered thus,

very composedly: “Your slave comes from the country of the west which

is called Farrukh.[151] I have left my home in the hope of entering the

service of your majesty, and I venture to express the wish that I may be

admitted among the number of officers attached to your royal person.” “I

accept your services,” said the king; “remain with me.” For some time

Bakáwalí performed her new duties, till one day the four sons of the king

presented themselves at court. Zayn ul-Mulúk, according to his custom,

received them most affectionately, pressed them to his bosom, kissed

their heads and eyes, and made them sit beside himself. Bakáwalí asked

an attendant who these personages were, and was informed that they were

the king’s own sons. Then with the touch-stone of discernment she tested

the gold of their countenances, and felt convinced that it was not pure.

“Has the king no other son,” she inquired, “who went with these in search

of the Rose of Bakáwalí?” “He has not,” was the answer.[152] The fairy

princess loved him who had taken possession of her ring, and her heart

told her that he was of a quite different stamp from these four sons

of Zayn ul-Mulúk. In despair, that after so many difficulties she had

discovered traces of her Rose, but still could not find out the one who

had plucked it, she cursed the fate which had sported with her prudent

devices, and remained convinced that these princes had not plucked the

Rose and that the king had another son. So she resolved to be patient and

see what should come from behind the veil of mystery.



       *       *       *       *       *



When the four wicked brothers of Táj ul-Mulúk had deprived him of the

Rose of Bakáwalí he was at first confounded, but soon afterwards followed

them, and when he arrived at the frontiers of his father’s country, and

found himself in a dense jungle full of wild beasts, he recollected

the hair which Hammála had given him, and placed it on a fire which he

lighted by means of a flint. There was not a quarter of it burnt when

the fairy presented herself before him, accompanied by a thousand dívs,

and asked him in what way she could be of service to him. The prince,

after apologising for the liberty he had taken in summoning her, replied

that he wished to have, then and in that spot, a palace equal to that

of Bakáwalí, upon which the fairy despatched some of her followers to

the four corners of the earth, to fetch the rubies of Badakshán, the

carnelians of Yaman, and abundance of gold and silver and all kinds of

precious stones. Within three days the dívs returned laden with treasures

and at once began to erect a palace as instructed by the sháh-záda. It

was soon finished, and one would have said that it was actually the

palace of Bakáwalí. One fourth of the precious stones brought by the

dívs could not be used and were deposited in the treasury of the palace.

When all was ready, Hammála reminded the prince that what she had just

done for him was on account of her love for Mahmúda, and counselled him

never to soil with the dust of sorrow the robe of that damsel, and then

departed.



Táj ul-Mulúk proceeded in great state to seek Dilbar and Mahmúda at the

place where they were to wait for him. He provided them with palankíns,

which were decorated with priceless gems and beautiful brocaded curtains,

and preceded by slaves on horseback, carrying sticks of gold and silver

in their hands. In this manner did he bring them to his palace, where

they passed the time very agreeably.



One day, as a slave of the prince, named Sa’íd, was strolling through the

forest he came upon some woodcutters, and asked them whither they were

carrying the faggots they had prepared. “We are,” said they, “men of

the east country, and it is by the sale of our wood that we support our

families.” The slave desired them to convey their burdens to the house of

his master, promising they should be richly recompensed. The men answered

that they had never seen any sign of a habitation in that forest. “Follow

me,” said the slave, “and you will soon be convinced I speak the truth,

and that my master’s house is not far distant.” The woodcutters complied

in the hope of gain, and soon arrived near the palace of Táj ul-Mulúk.

As the precious stones of which its walls were built reflected the rays

of the sun, they thought it was a great fire. “May God preserve us,”

they cried, “from the devil, who has been stoned![153] We will not go a

step farther.” “Calm yourselves,” replied Sa’íd; “what you see is not

fire, but the brilliancy of the stones which cover the walls. Continue to

follow me, and fear nothing.” When they reached the palace, Sa’íd brought

them before Táj ul-Mulúk, who received them with great kindness, and gave

to each a handful of pearls and precious stones, saying to them that if

they would come and stay with him he would give them every day twice

as much as they had just received. So they left their own country and

settled there. The news spread far and wide, and many others followed

the example of the wood-men, and those who went remained in this new

city. Every day the Kutwál[154] was complaining to the minister of Zayn

ul-Mulúk of the migration of his subjects, and how even in one night a

thousand had quitted the capital. The minister inquired whither they had

gone. “I have heard,” said the kutwál, “that in a forest a city has been

built on foundations of gold, and that a palace has been erected which is

unequalled in earth. The generosity of the king of that city bids fair to

erase the name of Hatim[155] from the minds of the people; and such is

the fame of his justice that the glory of Núshírván is eclipsed.”[156]

The minister asked: “How can a man do what is beyond the power of mortals

to perform?” “But I have been credibly informed of it many times,” said

the kutwál. “And that powerful God who transformed a man into a woman and

metamorphosed a woman into a man can also bestow wealth (which is like

a beautiful woman) on a human being. Have you not heard of the princess

who borrowed virility from a dív and married a wife?” “No,” answered the

vazír. “Attend then,” said the kutwál:





_Story of the Princess and the Dív who exchanged sexes_.



In ancient times there lived a king, who had a hundred beautiful girls

in his haram yet had no issue by any one of them. At length one of them

gave birth to a daughter, and afterwards she bore three other children,

but every time a female. When she was pregnant for the fourth time the

king swore that if a daughter was born again he would have both the child

and the mother destroyed. It happened that a daughter was again born; but

lovely and fairy-like was the infant. The mother, anxious to preserve

the life of her darling, gave out that it was a son, and prevailed upon

the astrologers to counsel the king not to see the child’s face for ten

years, for should he do so harm would come to him, and the father agreed

to do as they desired.



When the girl grew up in years and understanding, and the prescribed

period was near expiring, the mother explained matters to her, and

requested her to assume the garb of a young man and thus appear before

the king, so that in this way both their lives might be preserved. The

daughter followed her mother’s instructions, and in due course she was

betrothed to the daughter of another monarch. When the wedding-day

approached, the king caused her to be clothed in rich garments, and,

placing her in a golden litter, despatched her to the country of the

bride. The girl sometimes wept and sometimes laughed at the situation in

which she was placed. At last when she reached a dense forest, where she

had occasion to stay for the night, she could bear her shame no longer,

and finding life nothing less than a burden, she left her litter secretly

and wandered far into the wood, trusting that some beast of prey would

destroy her.



After roaming about for some time, she found herself under the branches

of a tall, umbrageous tree, in which dwelt a dív, who immediately fell

in love with her beauty. In the shape of a young man he appeared to her,

and inquired the cause of her distress. The girl told her story frankly,

upon which the heart of the dív melted, and he offered to change her

into a man and himself into a woman for a short time. She consented to

this, and the transformation took place at once, after which she took

her leave, with a light and happy heart, and rejoined her attendants

unperceived by any of them. In a few days more they reached the country

of the bride. The marriage was consummated and the old king returned to

his own country. The prince who was originally a princess remained with

his spouse until a child was born to him, and then he set out on a visit

to his father. In passing through the forest he sought out the tree

and found the dív sitting there in the form of a woman. “O dív,” cried

the prince, “through thy favour I have obtained the wish of my heart.

Take back your virility and restore my womanhood to me.” But this the

dív could not do, as in the form of a woman he had fallen in love with

another dív and expected soon to become a mother. “Therefore,” added the

dív, “do thou retain thy manhood: I am content to remain a woman.”[157]



       *       *       *       *       *



The kutwál having finished his story, the vazír remarked: “God is great

and powerful. I do not doubt this; but how a man can act so miraculously

as you say the ruler of that new city has done, I cannot understand.

Do you, however, go and inspect that wonderful palace and bring me an

account of all that you see.” So the kutwál at once proceeded to Mulk-i

Nighárín,[158] accompanied by a large body of cavaliers. Táj ul-Mulúk,

on hearing of his approach, ordered all the ponds to be filled and the

fountains to be set playing, and that he should be received in the

ruby-room. When the prince graced the throne with his presence the kutwál

rose, made his obeisance to him, and spoke as follows: “The news of your

residence in this jungle, where you have a palace and a city, has reached

the ears of the king, my master, who has sent me to verify the fact. Now

permit me to explain to you that if you wish to remain independent, you

must quit this place without delay. If not, you must put your neck in the

collar of submission and present yourself at the court of the king, for

one scabbard cannot hold two swords nor one country be governed by two

sovereigns.” “It is true,” replied Táj ul-Mulúk, “that I have constructed

buildings in a place inhabited by wild beasts, but I am only occupied

here in the service of the Most High, and I do not covet sovereignty, but

wish to be regarded as friendly towards your king.” The kutwál, satisfied

with this declaration, returned to the vazír and related to him all

that he had seen and heard, whereupon the vazír communicated it to Zayn

ul-Mulúk. The fairy Bakáwalí, who was still in the king’s service, heard

the news with joy: she now beheld the Aurora of hope emerge from the

night of despair.



Meanwhile Zayn ul-Mulúk bent his head for some time in the collar of

reflection, then expressed his fear that this new city might one day be

the ruin of his kingdom. But the vazír represented to him that it was a

maxim of the sages, that discretion should be practised towards an enemy

who could not be conquered, and therefore he recommended that the king

should enter into an allegiance with the stranger. “I consent,” replied

the monarch; “and, as no one can arrange this affair so well as yourself,

do you go, and kill the serpent without breaking the stick.”[159] The

sagacious vazír accordingly went in great state to visit Táj ul-Mulúk,

and was accorded a reception suited to his exalted rank. “You have

already received a visit of a servant of my master, the king,” said the

vazír. “He has spoken so highly of your qualities that the anger which

had become kindled in the heart of the padisháh, on hearing of your

settlement here, has been extinguished, and he purposes himself paying

you a visit. What can be better than a union of two rivers of goodness

and generosity?” Táj ul-Mulúk replied: “I accept with great pleasure the

message which you bring me on the part of your royal master. I ought to

have made the first advance, for the king’s wish which you have conveyed

to me is also my own.” It was then arranged that the king should come in

a week, and, after the vazír had dined with Táj ul-Mulúk in the most

sumptuous manner, he returned and gave his master a faithful account of

his interview and the wonders of the new city.



That very night the sháh-záda placed Hammála’s hair on the fire, and

immediately she appeared with a thousand dívs. Mahmúda rose to greet her

mother, who kissed and embraced both her children, and inquired if they

were in health. Táj ul-Mulúk answered: “In your safety is our happiness

and all our wants are supplied. But in eight days the king of the East

will visit me, and I wish you to cause carpets of wool and red and green

velvet to be spread on the ground from my palace to his, and erect at

the distance of every two miles tents made of fine ermine, with strings

of gold texture, screens of satin and brocade, and hooks of gold and

silver. These tents must be so numerous that every attendant of the king

may be accommodated separately.” Hammála gave the necessary orders to her

followers and returned to her own country.



On the day appointed, the king set out to visit Táj ul-Mulúk, mounted on

an elephant, in an _amári_[160] of gold, accompanied by his ministers

and a great number of cavaliers. The four sons of the king, mounted on

their own elephants, were also of the party, while Bakáwalí attended as

an officer of the royal household. Táj ul-Mulúk went one day’s march to

meet his father.[161] He paid his respects to him and led him with joy to

his palace, and made him sit down in the room of emeralds. The king was

so astonished that he fell into a kind of stupor. Bakáwalí, on her part,

almost lost her reason, when she beheld the prince. His handsome features

pointed him out to her as the stealer of her Rose, and she was confirmed

in this when she recognised that the palace was an exact copy of her own,

for she felt sure that he who had designed it had seen the original. She

wished at once to make herself known, but her natural timidity restrained

her, and she resolved to wait patiently for a favourable opportunity to

accomplish her purpose. Meanwhile a splendid feast was spread out, and

music and song diffused pleasure over all. When every amusement was over,

the king and Táj ul-Mulúk began to converse, and the prince inquired how

many sons he had. The king pointed to the four princes and said that

these were his only children. “I had one more,” he added, “by gazing

on whose countenance I lost my eyesight. Thanks be to God that I have

regained it now; but there is no knowing where that child has gone.” Táj

ul-Mulúk asked how it was that the prince had turned away his face from

duty and left his father’s house, and farther inquired whether any one in

the company would be able to recognise him. On this Zayn ul-Mulúk gave

a detailed account of the birth of the lost prince as well as a history

of his own blindness. He then pointed out one of his vazírs, who, he

said, might be able to identify him. The prince turned towards him and

inquired whether among all present he saw any one who bore a resemblance

to Táj ul-Mulúk. The old and experienced man, after gazing steadfastly in

the countenance of the speaker, replied that none but the prince himself

presented any likeness to that person.



Hardly were these words uttered than Táj ul-Mulúk threw himself at the

feet of his father, exclaiming: “I am that unfortunate son, who has

wandered so long from your court in consequence of an adverse destiny

and my sorrowful horoscope. Blessed be God who has at last permitted me

to behold your venerable face and embrace your knees!” The king, deeply

moved, pressed his young son to his bosom; then he returned thanks to

God, saying to Táj ul-Mulúk that the astrologers who were consulted at

his birth had predicted his present illustrious condition. “But tell

me, dear son,” he continued, “have you remained free till now, like the

cypress, without uniting yourself to some beautiful lady?” The prince

replied: “I have two wives, whom I shall have the honour to present to

your majesty,” and at once he went into the women’s apartments and led

out Dilbar and Mahmúda, who, however, stopped at the threshold of the

hall and would not advance farther. The king impatiently exclaimed: “Why

do they not come near me, that my eyes may be illumined and my heart

delighted by beholding them?” The prince answered: “My sovereign, it is

shame that restrains them. The four princes, your sons, were once in

bondage to one of them, and bear the tokens on their backs. If you have

any doubt of this, you can satisfy yourself.” At these words the pallor

of confusion overspread the faces of the four princes, who immediately

retired, fearing to be disgraced in public.[162] Then the wives of Táj

ul-Mulúk were introduced to the king, and the prince related their

history; how he bore away the flower from the garden of Bakáwalí and saw

her asleep in all her beauty; how his brothers had deprived him of the

flower; and how he had built his palace in the forest. Zayn ul-Mulúk

immediately thought of the mother of his son. “You,” said he, addressing

the prince, “have restored my eyesight and opened the gates of joy to

me. It is now incumbent on me to communicate the happy tidings to your

mother, and relieve her from the pains of absence, by restoring her

long-lost son to her.” He then arose to depart; and the same night he

paid a visit to Táj ul-Mulúk’s mother, begged a thousand pardons for all

that he had done to her, and informed her of the return of her son.









CHAPTER V.



    BAKÁWALÍ RETURNS TO HER OWN COUNTRY, AND THERE WRITES A

    LOVE-LETTER TO THE PRINCE, WHO SETS OUT TO VISIT HER—THE MOTHER

    OF BAKÁWALÍ DISCOVERS THAT HER DAUGHTER IS IN LOVE WITH A HUMAN

    BEING, TOSSES THE PRINCE HIGH UP INTO THE AIR AND IMPRISONS

    BAKÁWALÍ—THE PRINCE FALLS INTO A RIVER, EMERGES FROM IT IN

    SAFETY, OBTAINS SEVERAL MAGIC ARTICLES, IS CHANGED INTO A YOUNG

    WOMAN, THEN INTO A FOUL-VISAGED ABYSSINIAN, AND FINALLY REGAINS

    HIS OWN FORM.





Bakáwalí, who had heard the story of Táj ul-Mulúk, could no longer doubt

but that he was the ravisher of her Rose and her ring. And when the king

had returned to his capital she obtained permission to leave his service,

and at once returned to her own palace, where she wrote a letter to her

well-beloved, with her ring, and entrusted the packet to a fairy named

Saman-rú,[163] who was her confidante, desiring her to deliver it to

Prince Táj ul-Mulúk when she found him alone and free from the cares of

the world. The fairy spread her wings and in the twinkling of an eye

appeared before the prince and delivered the letter of her mistress. The

prince at once recognised the ring, opened the letter with the greatest

eagerness, and read as follows:



“I begin in the name of God, who has no equal in the universe. He it is

who placed the stars in the heavens and created both genii and men. To

the fairy he has given beauty; and yet has he granted superiority to men

over fairies, for even they are struck by the darts of love. Cast but thy

eyes on the countenance of Laylá, and she will become Majnún for thee.

And if the reflex of thy beauty shine on Shírín, she will become her own

Farhád.[164] The sun and the atoms that dance in his beams are equally

enamoured of thee. The light of love thou hast lightened, and like a moth

is burned in the flame.



“After my compliments to thee, O king of beauty and grace, let me tell

thee that the arrows which sprang from the bows of thine eyebrows

have wounded my heart to its core; and thy raven locks, descending

luxuriantly, have enchained and enfettered me. Love has triumphed over

me; he is my master both externally and internally. It is wrong to think

that one heart is apprised of the feelings of another; but here am I

burning, suffering, and no impression is made on thee. Without thee,

my house is a scene of woe, and even heaven is hell. I am panting for

the life-bestowing elixir of thy kisses. Thy love has deprived me of my

heart; I should not wonder if I find no portion of it within my breast.

Do thou accept my virgin love! Thou art the river, and I am dying of

thirst; come at once and slake it. If you come not, I shall die of a

broken heart; but on rising at the day of resurrection, I shall call

thee to account. What wilt thou answer me then, when I ask thee why thou

didst kill me? But this is enough. My feelings will be apparent from

this.”[165]



On reading Bakáwalí’s letter the fire of love which was concealed in the

heart of Táj ul-Mulúk was fiercely kindled. Impatient as mercury, he

wished at once to behold her who had charmed him and whom he had himself

inspired with love. Meanwhile he took the pen in his hand and thus

replied:



“O thou, who knowest well how to burn the heart of thy lover, the whole

style of thy letter shows that thou art fully inclined to oppress my

suffering bosom. Thou art beautiful; thou art indeed the robber that

waits for his prey in the path of love. Thine eyebrows are like swords,

and in thine eyes lurk enchantments and lightnings to captivate and burn

the soul. The rose-bud is ashamed before thy countenance, and the ruby

colourless before thy lips. I am an atom; thou art the sun indeed. O thou

charming beauty, and lovelier than the idols of China![166] every word

of thy letter has made a lasting impression on my heart. I have passed

my nights in sighs and groans. The impress of thy countenance will never

be erased from the tablet of my memory. As long as the moon shall retain

her light, so long shall my heart retain thy love. Never think that I

shall forget thee; not for a moment shall my heart lose the idea of thy

enchanting charms. Thy name fills me with impatience. When first I heard

it I undertook to endure every trouble. I made friendship with the dívs

to induce them to convey me to thy fairy-land. I saw thee, and the wound

of my heart was terribly enlarged. Is it that a spark from my heart has

fallen on thine, or has the lightning of desire struck thee? Yet I ought

not to confide any more of my secrets to the pen; as it is said: ‘The pen

should not be admitted into the secrets of lovers.’ Enough now.”



Táj ul-Mulúk applied to this letter, as a seal, his moist eye tinted with

_surma_,[167] and handed it to Samánrú, charging the fairy to say many

things from him to Bakáwalí which he could not express in writing, and

the fairy, taking her leave, soon discharged her commission.



When Bakáwalí saw that the love of Táj ul-Mulúk was still more violent

than her own, and that union alone could calm their mutual impatience,

she summoned Hammála at once, who presently appeared before the princess,

trembling at the peremptory command like the willow of Egypt; but

finding her in tears, she expressed her concern. “Wretched go-between,”

said Bakáwalí, in anger, “it is thou who hast kindled the fire which

consumes me and caused my present condition, by giving to thy son-in-law

the means of coming here. Wherefore, in order to repair thy fault, do

thou bring quickly to me this dearly beloved being.” “Is it for such a

trifle,” replied Hammála, with a smile, “that your cheeks are wet and

your beauty disfigured? Rise and wash yourself, and let the smile return

to your lips, for I will at once bring Táj ul-Mulúk to you—nothing is

easier.” Swiftly flew Hammála and came to the prince. “Arise, thou moth,”

said she smilingly, “thy candle invites thee.” On hearing these welcome

words the prince fell at her feet. Hammála raised him, pressed him in

her arms, and placing him on her shoulder carried him to the realm of

Bakáwalí.



       *       *       *       *       *



In the meantime Jamíla Khatún[168] was informed that her daughter

Bakáwalí was in love with a human being. She flew into a violent rage,

and severely scolded her, saying that she was a disgrace to the fairies.

Bakáwalí, laying her fingers on her ears, denied the assertion, and

declared that she was still ignorant of the meaning of love, and that

only in a dream had she seen a human being. It was after this scene that

Hammála arrived with the prince, and when Saman-rú came, and privately

informed Bakáwalí that her lover was in the garden; she told her to keep

him concealed in some place of safety, as she had, much against her will,

to remain with her mother till the greater part of the night was past.



Jamíla Khatún at last fell asleep, and Bakáwalí arose without disturbing

her mother, and with palpitating bosom, alternating between fear and

desire, she proceeded to the place where her lover was hidden. So

violent were the feelings of Táj ul-Mulúk on beholding Bakáwalí that he

swooned. She ran up to him, and placed his head on her knees, when her

sweet breath had the effect of the essence of roses on the prince, who

soon recovered consciousness, and on opening his eyes and seeing all

her concern for him, he considered himself as the personification of

happiness. Unfortunately, Jamíla Khatún awoke about the middle of the

night and arose; and, seeing the garden lit up by the rays of the moon,

walked out in front of the very spot where the lovers were reposing in

each other’s arms, believing themselves in perfect security. On seeing

them the flames of anger broke out in her heart, and taking up Táj

ul-Mulúk she hurled him like a stone from a sling into the regions of

magic, and then slapped Bakáwalí until the hue of her cheeks was equal to

that of the reddest tulip. After this she conveyed her to the garden of

Iram, the residence of her father, Fírúz Sháh,[169] to whom she disclosed

all she had witnessed. Fírúz Sháh appointed a number of fairies to

divert his daughter’s heart from human love. But in vain did they busy

themselves with this object night and day without intermission: the

more they spoke the more she loved; the more they tried to extinguish

the flame the more it blazed. They saw plainly that love had made a home

in her heart, so at last they told Fírúz Sháh that all their efforts

were of no avail, and he, finding her deaf to all good counsel, threw a

talismanic influence over her, and Bakáwalí found herself confined in

golden fetters.



When Jamíla Khatún had hurled Táj ul-Mulúk up in the air, he fell into

an unknown sea, the waves of which tossed him to and fro. Now like a

pearl he would sink to the bottom, and now like a bubble rise to the

surface. After remaining some days in this condition he at last reached

the shore of a green island: so true it is that even death cannot lay his

hand on the life of lovers. The heat of the sun reanimating his body,

he regained his strength and could rise up and walk. Eager to get away

from this island, he collected the branches of trees, and having joined

them together in the form of a raft, invoked the name of God,[170] cast

it into the sea and placed himself on it. After drifting on the sea for

several days he reached a shore which skirted a frightful desert. At

night, through fear of wild beasts, he climbed a tree, but ere long he

heard a rumbling sound on the south side of the desert, and presently

perceived a monstrous dragon approach and place itself at the foot of

the tree into the branches of which he had climbed. The dragon brought

from its mouth a serpent which emitted a gem so brilliant that it lighted

up the jungle for many miles. The wild beasts and birds came to dance

before the dragon; they were soon rendered senseless and all devoured by

the monster, after which the serpent swallowed the gem and re-entered

the mouth of the dragon, who departed the way it had come. The prince

wished he could obtain possession of the gem, for which purpose he long

remained in thought, devising a plan, but morning dawned before he came

to any determination. He then walked towards the shore and brought away

from there a heavy lump of clay. In the evening he again climbed the tree

and sat patiently. When the dragon came and repeated the scene of the

previous evening, the prince threw the lump of clay down on the gem, and

having thus covered it the whole forest was plunged into darkness, so

that the dragon and the serpent knocked their heads against the stones

and died.[171] On the morrow Táj ul-Mulúk came down from the tree, and

taking the precious gem from beneath the clay placed it in his girdle,

and set out in hopes of finding some inhabited spot. He walked on for

several days without success, sleeping at night among the branches of

trees.



It happened one night, as he had secured himself in a tree where a

_maina_[172] had its nest, he heard the little ones ask their mother what

treasures there were in the jungle. She replied: “As you proceed towards

the south there is on the edge of a lake a tree of enormous height. Any

one placing a piece of its bark on his head will become invisible to all,

while everything is visible to him; but no person can go to that tree,

because it is guarded by a huge dragon, which neither sword nor arrow can

wound.” The young ones inquired: “How, then, could any one reach there?”

The maina answered: “If a courageous and prudent man should go to the

border of the lake, he must leap into it, when the dragon will attack

him, and he will be changed into a raven, and must then place himself

on one of the western branches of that tree, where he will find green

and red fruits. Should he eat one of the red fruits, he will regain his

original form; and by eating a green fruit he will become invulnerable,

and by placing one in his girdle he could travel through the air. The

leaves will heal wounds, and its wood open the strongest locks and break

the most solid bodies.” Táj ul-Mulúk listened most attentively to this

conversation, and resolved to profit by it.[173]



In the morning he went to the lake, and the dragon darted forth to attack

him. The prince leaped into the water, and was changed into a raven; then

flying to the tree, he ate of the red fruit, and recovering his proper

form plucked some green fruits and placed them in his girdle; of one of

the branches he made a staff, and, taking some of the healing leaves and

a piece of the bark sufficient to make an invisible cap, he flew away.

He soon left the jungle and arrived at an inhabited place. He cut open a

part of his thigh, placed the gem in it, and by aid of the leaves healed

the wound in a moment.



After proceeding a short distance he came to the marble border of a

lake, around which grew the most beautiful flowers. On seeing the

clear and cool water he felt a strong desire to bathe in it, so he at

once undressed himself and dived into the pond; but when he came to

the surface again he saw neither the lake nor the place where he was

before, but found himself near a strange city, and, what was stranger

still, he felt that he was no longer a man, but metamorphosed into a

beautiful young woman, with cheeks like the jasmine flower. Táj ul-Mulúk

was greatly concerned at this wonderful change, but in the meantime he

saw no remedy but patience. He sat down, quite ashamed, when a young

man, passing by, saw, as he supposed, the features of a húrí, and asked

by what accident he came there. Táj ul-Mulúk replied: “My father was

a merchant, and it was his custom to take me with him on his trading

journeys. We came into this forest with a caravan, and at midnight

robbers attacked us, pillaged all our goods, and killed my father and

several others. The rest fled, and I only am left in the midst of this

solitude, without shelter, or strength to go farther.” “If you take me

as your husband,” said the young man, “I will lead you to my house, in

which you may rule as mistress.” With the form of a woman the prince was

also endowed with her nature, and becoming at once enamoured of the youth

he followed him and duly became his wife. In course of time a son was

born, and on the fortieth day he went to bathe in a lake which was near

the house.[174] When he withdrew his head from the water, he saw nothing

of what surrounded him a moment before, but found himself changed into

a young Abyssinian. Presently a hideous negress appeared before him,

and seizing him by the girdle exclaimed: “O man without feeling! for

three days have thy children suffered from hunger, and I have never

ceased searching for you! Where hast thou been hiding thyself? But never

mind—what is done is done. Come now, where is the wood which thou hast

collected? Give it to me, that I may sell it and procure food for our

starving children.” “Great God!” cried Táj ul-Mulúk, turning his eyes

towards heaven, “how long wilt thou keep me in this state of affliction?

From the day when the mother of Bakáwalí tossed me into the sea, I have

not breathed a single moment free from the clutches of misfortune.” In

short, that sable hag pulled him, _nolens volens_, to her dwelling.

Arrived there, a crowd of children surrounded him, crying: “Father!

father! what hast thou brought for us?” Then the negress gave him an axe,

and told him to go into the forest and cut some wood for the support of

his family. The prince quitted the cottage, and as he went along called

to mind that it was by plunging into a lake that his form had been twice

changed, and he resolved to make a third trial. Accordingly he dived

into the waters of the first lake on his way, lifted up his head, and

found himself restored to his original shape, and on the border of the

lake where he had taken his first plunge. He returned thanks to God, and

determined never again to bathe in any lake. His magical cap and stick

he found lying on the very spot where he had placed them before leaping

into the lake which changed his sex, and taking them up he departed

thence.



My friends,[175] those very lakes which Táj ul-Mulúk should have avoided

are the pleasures of this world, which, like the mirage, deceive man.

It was not necessary for him to fill his pitcher from every stream, nor

to smell the flowers of every garden. Thorns have often the appearance

of roses, and seem to be even more beautiful. If you enter into the

world to lay hold of the pearl of pleasure, you will lose your hat

and stick,—images of the goodness and power of God, and so, like Táj

ul-Mulúk, you will cease to have the noble form of men. When you return

to yourself you go to the brink of the stream of the remembrance of God

and plunge into it; and drawing out your head, you again find the hat and

stick of grace.









CHAPTER VI.



    THE PRINCE COMES TO THE CASTLE OF A FIERCE DEMON CALLED

    SHAH PYKAR, WHERE HE FINDS RUH-AFZA, COUSIN OF BAKÁWALÍ, A

    PRISONER—HE RESCUES HER FROM THE DEMON AND CONVEYS HER TO HER

    PARENTS—HE OBTAINS BAKÁWALÍ IN MARRIAGE AND RETURNS WITH HIS

    BEAUTEOUS FAIRY BRIDE TO HIS OWN PALACE.





Táj ul-Mulúk, after suffering every inconvenience, determined at last

to leave the earth altogether, and, by the aid of the green fruit which

he had with him, to travel about in the air. One day he passed over a

mountain so high that by its side Káf would seem a mere hillock, and of

granite so hard that mount Bistán[176] would be reduced to powder by

collision with one of its rocks. On the summit was a beautiful palace,

constructed of precious stones, into which he entered from curiosity. He

looked around but found no living creature, and was walking through the

rooms when his ears caught a wailing sound, and going towards the place

whence it issued he discovered a beautiful damsel extended on a couch and

weeping very bitterly. The prince, taking off his hat and thus making

himself visible, begged her to explain how and why she was there. “I am

a fairy,” said she, “and am called Rúh-afzá.[177] My father, Muzaffar

Sháh,[178] rules over the island of Firdaus.[179] One day I had gone to

the Garden of Iram[180] to visit my cousin Bakáwalí, who was unwell, and

on my return a dív with black countenance carried me away and brought

me here. Then he wished me to yield to his passion, but I refused,

and hence he persecutes me, and tries by all means to increase my

sufferings.” The prince asked what was her cousin’s malady, and Rúh-afzá

replied: “She loves a human being, whom she contrived to bring into her

presence, but she has been separated from him, and my uncle keeps her in

close confinement.” At these words Táj ul-Mulúk could not suppress his

sighs, and with pale cheeks and tears in his eyes confessed that he was

the human creature whom Bakáwalí loved. “Alas!” added he, “while she is

suffering in prison, I am pining away and wandering in search of her.”

Then he told Rúh-afzá all his own history, and the recital so touched the

beautiful fairy that she declared herself willing to do all in her power

to help the lovers if she were freed from the dív. “Be not afraid,” said

the prince; “no one can prevent your going. Come with me, and if the dív

should appear, I shall settle matters with him. My only difficulty is

that I am without weapons.” The fairy directed him to the armoury of the

dív, from which he took a sword of the purest water. Then touching with

his magic stick the chains which bound her feet they broke in pieces,

and they took their way to the island of Firdaus. But they had only

proceeded a short distance when a horrible noise was heard behind them.

“Take care,” cried Rúh-afzá to the prince—“here is my terrible enemy!”

Táj ul-Mulúk, with great presence of mind, drew his magic cap from under

his arm and put it on the head of his lovely companion, and then turned

to confront the dív. “Accursed one!” cried the prince, “advance not a

step farther, if you would not be made a corpse by a single blow.” The

dív grinned, showing his great teeth, and sneeringly asked: “Who has

ever heard of a sparrow wishing to fight with the símurgh,[181] or an

ant with an elephant? I should blush to stain my hand with the blood of

a fly, and strike at a handful of earth—I, who can turn aside mount Káf

with a back stroke of my hand. Give me up my mistress and depart.” “Thou

vile and lewd wretch,” exclaimed Táj ul Mulúk, “dost thou dare to call

Rúh-afzá thy mistress? Had I not been restrained by the grace of God,

ere this time I should have torn thy foul tongue out of thy mouth.” The

dív burnt with anger at these words, and lifting up a stone weighing a

hundred _máns_[182] threw it at the prince, upon which the latter, to

avoid it, by virtue of the green fruit which he carried with him, rose up

into the air, and with his magic staff dealt such a blow on the neck of

the dív that he trembled all over. Then the dív uttered loud cries, and

presently a great number of other dívs, ox-headed and elephant-bodied,

came to his assistance and joined in battle against the sháh-záda, who

after a most formidable engagement proved victorious, and those of his

foes who survived fled in dismay. But no sooner was the field cleared

of the enemy than Táj ul-Mulúk fainted in consequence of his exertions.

The beautiful Rúh-afzá, seeing this, ran up to him, laid her hand like

a rose-leaf on his bosom, and with her fragrant breath recalled him to

consciousness, and, giving him back his magic cap, warmly praised his

valorous achievement. Then they continued their journey, and arriving

at the capital of Firdaus, Rúh-afzá, leaving the prince in a garden

belonging to herself, and bearing her own name, proceeded to her father’s

palace, where she was received by Muzaffar Sháh and her mother with every

token of affection. Rúh-afzá told them of her adventures, but concealed

the fact of her deliverer being the lover of Bakáwalí. Her father at

once proceeded to the garden and thanked Táj ul-Mulúk for rescuing his

daughter, and overwhelmed him with tokens of respect and honour.



Muzaffar Sháh then wrote a letter to Fírúz Sháh, acquainting him of the

return of Rúh-afzá. The monarch read it with joy, and induced Jamíla

Khatún to go and see her niece. Bakáwalí wished to accompany her, which

gave great pleasure to her mother, because she thought that the journey

would remove the mildew of sorrow from the mirror of her heart. Jamíla

unloosed the chains which bound Bakáwalí, and both departed together

for the island of Firdaus. When Muzaffar Sháh was informed of their

arrival he sent his daughter to meet them. Rúh-afzá greeted her aunt

most heartily, kissed her forehead, fell at her feet, and then exchanged

congratulations suitable to the occasion; after which she whispered to

Bakáwalí: “Be you glad also, for I have brought a physician who will

cure your disease, by prescribing the sherbet of love to you.” The

heart of Bakáwalí was full of joy, but she did not venture to reply

before her mother. Muzaffar Sháh and Husn-árá[183] showed the greatest

kindness to their sister and her daughter. The door of speech was opened

and different things were talked about, especially the manner in which

Rúh-afzá had been rescued. The following morning Jamíla Khatún wished

to take farewell of her niece, but the latter entreated her to allow

Bakáwalí to remain a few days longer with her. Jamíla consented to leave

her for a week with her cousin, and returned to the garden of Iram. Then

Rúh-afzá led Bakáwalí to that part of the palace where Táj ul-Mulúk was

dwelling. As soon as they drew near the chamber a doleful sound was heard

from within. Bakáwalí asked: “Who is this groaning?” Her cousin answered:

“It is a new victim. Come, if you wish, and I will show him to you.” At

last she prevailed upon Bakáwalí to enter the chamber, and brought her

into the presence of the prince. The moment the eyes of the lovers fell

on each other patience was lost, sense remained dormant, the reins of

discretion dropped from their hands, love triumphed over all, and they

ran forward and embraced with all the warmth which genuine passion can

alone inspire. They wept for joy, and blotted out with their tears the

remembrance of the sorrows which had caused their long separation. The

lovers remained together, and gave themselves up to mutual tokens of

affection until at last the day arrived when Bakáwalí was obliged to

return to her parents. Rúh-afzá promised to use her utmost efforts to

get them united, and persuaded them to await with patience the course of

events. Bakáwalí yielded to this advice and returned home.



Meanwhile Rúh-afzá related in detail to her mother the history of the

love of her cousin and Táj ul-Mulúk. After the recital Husn-árá held

her head for a long time bowed down in the collar of reflection, and

then said to her daughter: “Although the union of a man with a fairy be

an unusual thing, yet, as this mortal has delivered you from a cruel

bondage, I ought, out of gratitude, to save him from some sorrow and

enable him to succeed in his object.” Having taken this resolution, she

called for a skilful painter and caused him to draw the portrait of Táj

ul-Mulúk, and then proceeded to the garden of Iram, where she stayed a

few days with Fírúz Sháh and Jamíla Khatún. One day in conversation with

the latter she addressed her as follows: “My dear sister, a pearl of

beautiful water is only useful when shown in a necklace. Why do you allow

Bakáwalí to pine away in virginity?” “Perhaps you have already heard,”

replied Jamíla, “that my daughter has placed her affections on a human

being. She does not wish to be united to one of her own race. What can I

do in this matter? Must I give up the customs of our ancestors? Should I

allow my daughter to make a marriage which has never before taken place

amongst us?” “True,” rejoined Husn-árá, “it is unwise to place a precious

gem in the hands of one who cannot appreciate it; but if you knew all

the merits of the human race you would never entertain such thoughts as

these. Hear me: man is the most perfect of the creatures of God.[184] He

is the image of the Deity, is glorified by all, and is considered as the

lord of the creation. His sway extends over the elements, and, clothed in

the garments of virtue, he is more than a sovereign on earth. The light

of God beams in him. Every attribute of the Deity has its corresponding

representation on earth; but in man alone can we find all the several

virtues bound, as it were, in a single volume. Each leaf that trembles to

the gale is a leaf of the works of the Creator.[185] O Jamíla Khatún, man

is a superior creature, and we are but his servants. What an honour it is

therefore to be allied to a superior.” By such words Husn-árá endeavoured

to extinguish in the heart of her sister the hatred which she had for

the human race. “That is all very well,” said Jamíla, “but to a man my

daughter shall never be given.” Thereupon Husn-árá placed Táj ul-Mulúk’s

portrait in her hands, saying: “Tell me, if ever the pen of destiny has

drawn such a handsome face in the world. Make haste, then, to unite this

lovely jasmine to that rose of beauty.” At length Jamíla consented to

bestow her daughter on the prince, and Husn-árá returned to Firdaus, and

reported the result of her expedition.



Jamíla related to her husband, Fírúz Sháh, the conversation she had

with her sister, and showed him the likeness of Táj ul-Mulúk, which he

sent to Bakáwalí, with the message that he was willing she should marry

the young prince of the East, since such was her desire. Bakáwalí at

once recognised her dearly beloved, and felt that this change in the

sentiments of her parents was due to Rúh-afzá. So she hastened to her

father, and said: “Sire, children ought to obey their parents, therefore

I accept the husband whom you offer me. Were he a dív or an Abyssinian,

I would consider him as one of the youths of paradise, or as the Moon of

Canaan.”[186] Fírúz Sháh at once gave orders to make preparations for the

marriage. All the houses were decorated with gold, and songs and dances

resounded throughout the city. Letters of invitation were despatched

everywhere; troops of fairies came to swell the festive gathering. The

wine went gaily round,[187] and plates with cakes and sweets. Fírúz Sháh

treated all with princely hospitality. As the festivities began well, so

they ended. In the island of Firdaus the same arrangements were made by

Muzaffar Sháh and the same ceremonies performed.



On the day before the marriage orders were given to the amírs and vazírs

that they should array themselves in the most brilliant garments. The

army was directed to be drawn out. Husn-árá also adorned herself with the

most precious jewels, and her maids and attendants were as splendidly

decorated. At last, when the auspicious moment arrived,[188] they brought

the prince, arrayed in royal robes, and placed him on a throne of state.

A gorgeous turban adorned his head, whence descended long folds of

flowing cloth, richly embroidered with pearls and flowers. His neck was

surrounded with wreaths of valuable pearls, and his wrists encircled with

the precious _nauratan_.[189] He was then placed on a beautiful horse,

caparisoned in the richest fashion. Muzaffar Sháh, with several other

sovereigns, rode in the train. The palankíns of the ladies followed.

When the procession arrived at the palace of Fírúz Sháh he sent some of

his officers to conduct them to the reception room where the company had

assembled. Jamíla and Husn-árá then came forward, the former as mother

of the bride, the latter as fulfilling the same duty for the bridegroom.

The prince and princess were duly united in marriage, and congratulations

resounded throughout the hall. Wines and sherbets were passed round

abundantly. The singers only ceased their love-songs when sleep overtook

them, and then they reposed in each other’s arms as on cushions.



In the morning, as the prince went to the bath, Rúh-afzá came into the

nuptial chamber and found Bakáwalí still asleep, and perceived on her

cheeks the marks of the teeth of Táj ul-Mulúk,[190] and on her bosom

the trace of his hands tinged with _mehndí_.[191] Muzaffar Sháh and

Husn-árá soon took their leave of their relations and set out for

their own country. Some time after, Táj ul-Mulúk, with the consent of

Bakáwalí, asked permission to quit the palace of Fírúz Sháh. In giving

his sanction, the king of the fairies presented the prince with a great

number of slaves of both sexes, and, besides the dowry of Bakáwalí,

ready money for the journey; and many articles of use and ornament were

also bestowed on him, a mere catalogue of the names of which would fill

a volume. Táj ul-Mulúk, attended with every pomp and magnificence, took

Bakáwalí to his own palace. Dilbar and Mahmúda on beholding him were

restored to joy, and the dry field of their hope was again refreshed

with the shower of gladness. The beauty and grace of Bakáwalí, however,

filled them with confusion, but the fairy tenderly embraced them both

and assured them that she would never disturb their domestic happiness.

They spent their time in peace and mutual love and never had the least

jealousy or rivalry between themselves. The prince passed his days with

these rosy-lipped beauties, immersed in a sea of bliss.









CHAPTER VII.



    BAKÁWALÍ GOES TO THE COURT OF INDRA, WHERE SHE SINGS AND

    DANCES—THE DEITY, ENRAGED AT HER LOVE FOR A HUMAN BEING,

    PRONOUNCES A CURSE UPON HER—THE PRINCE GOES TO CEYLON, WHERE HE

    FINDS BAKÁWALÍ CONFINED IN A TEMPLE, THE LOWER PART OF HER BODY

    BEING TURNED INTO MARBLE—CHITRAWAT, THE DAUGHTER OF THE RÁJÁ,

    FALLS IN LOVE WITH HIM, AND ON HIS DECLINING HER OVERTURES HE

    IS THROWN INTO PRISON.





Indian writers say, that there was a city called Amarnagar, whose

inhabitants were immortal, the king of which, named Indra,[192] passed

his days and nights in joyful festivities, and the food of his soul was

song and dancing. His sway extended over all the world of the jinn, and

his court was constantly attended by the parís, who danced before him.

One night Indra observed that Bakáwalí, the daughter of Fírúz Sháh, had

not been present for some time, and demanded to know the reason. “It is,”

replied one of the parís, “because she has been caught in the net of love

by a man, and, intoxicated with this passion, she is constantly with him

and has no longer any dislike for his race.” On hearing this Indra was

greatly enraged, and directed several fairies to bring her instantly. By

an aërial chariot they were carried to the garden of Táj ul-Mulúk, where

they awoke Bakáwalí, told her of the wrath of Indra and intimated his

command. She was therefore compelled to accompany them to Amarnagar, and,

trembling, came before the king, and with folded hands paid her dutiful

respects; but the king, casting on her a look of anger, reprimanded her

with great severity, and ordered that she should be thrown into the

fire, so that her body might lose the odour which the contact with a

mortal had imparted to it. The fairies put her accordingly into a furnace

where she was reduced to ashes; after which they recited a charm over

a basin of water, and sprinkling it on the ashes restored her to life.

Thus purified, she came before Indra, and began to dance. With her first

motion, she trod upon the hearts of the spectators, and in one turn

threw the beholders out of themselves: every mouth applauded her, every

tongue commended her. When she had ended, she saluted the assembly and

returned in the same chariot to her garden. After bathing in rose-water

she rejoined her lord. On the morrow she rose up according to her custom,

and conducted herself all day in her usual manner till night came, when

she again ascended to the court of Indra to repeat the proceedings of

the preceding night; and thus she continued for some time, Táj ul-Mulúk

suspecting nothing.



One night, however, while she was at the court of Indra, the prince

awoke, and finding her not by his side sought her in vain both on the

terrace and in the garden. He went to sleep again, and, meanwhile,

Bakáwalí returned and lay down on the marital couch. The prince was much

astonished, on awaking in the morning, to find her by his side, but,

feigning to know nothing of her absence, he determined to discover the

secret. Before lying down on his couch next night, he cut his finger and

put salt on the wound to prevent him from dropping asleep. At midnight

the flying chariot appeared, and just as Bakáwalí was about to mount

it the prince, without being perceived, fastened himself firmly to one

of the corners, and they were speedily at the gate of Indra. There the

prince saw what he had never before seen as regards immortal beauties;

and heard what he had never before heard with respect to musical sounds.

But when he beheld the terrible purification of Bakáwalí, and saw her

reduced to ashes, he could no longer contain himself, and struck his head

with both hands. Presently, boundless was his astonishment when he saw

his beloved rise up again from her ashes and advance towards Indra. As

the crowd was numerous, he followed her without attracting any attention.

It chanced that the musician attending Bakáwalí was very old, and could

not, from infirmity, perform his duties properly.[193] The prince

approached the musician, and said in a whisper: “If you are tired with

playing, I will take your place for a short time with much pleasure,

as I am considered skilful in this exercise.” The old man accepted

the proposal and handed him the instrument. No sooner had the prince

struck the first note than the movements of Bakáwalí grew animated and

ravishing. Indra was so delighted that he took from his neck a collar, of

the value of nine lakhs of rupís, and cast it before Bakáwalí, who, in a

retrograde movement, gave it in charge of the clever musician. When the

festivities were over Bakáwalí returned home, and went as usual to bathe

in the tank of rose-water. Meanwhile Táj ul-Mulúk gained his couch and

feigned to be fast asleep.



When morning dawned the prince related to Bakáwalí his adventure of the

previous night, confirming the truth of his narrative by showing her

the necklace of Indra. She expressed her fears lest a repetition of the

adventure should cause them distress, but said she would that night try

her fate by taking him with her. Accordingly the prince accompanied her

to the court of Indra, and was presented by her to the king as a skilled

musician; and as soon as the prince began to play and Bakáwalí to dance,

the assembly were overcome with astonishment, and Indra exclaimed: “Ask

what thou desirest, and I will give it to thee.”[194] Bakáwalí replied:

“Great king, I am in want of nothing, save that you will give me this

musician and let me go.” At these words Indra, in anger, and regarding

Bakáwalí as a courtesan, said that as he had given his word he must not

draw back from it; but for twelve years the lower half of her body should

be of marble.[195]



    Fate, alas! ordaineth still,

    Grief and joy are twin-born here:

    Now ’tis spring with laughing flowers,

    Now ’tis autumn bleak and sere!

    A crown adorns the head to-day,

    In the grave it lies to-morrow!

    Now like flowers the heart expands,

    Now ’tis spotted all with sorrow!

    Pleasures vanish fast away,

    Short-lived is the sunny day!



It is related that Bakáwalí immediately after her transformation

disappeared, and Táj ul-Mulúk rolled on the ground through excess of

grief; but the fairies, pitying his condition, took him up and cast him

in a forest on earth. For three days he remained there without sense

or motion. On the fourth he opened his eyes, and found, instead of his

beloved, nothing but thorns in his arms. He wandered on every side,

calling upon Bakáwalí, and asking every tree to direct him to her. One

day he arrived on the banks of a pond. Beautiful stairs were on each side

and trees loaded with fruits were planted everywhere. The prince waited

for a moment, then bathed, and laid himself down under the shade of a

tree, and thinking of his beloved he fell asleep. It happened that a

number of fairies alighted there, and after bathing in the pond, sat down

to dry their hair. The eyes of one falling on the prince, she observed

to her companions: “There is the musician of Bakáwalí.” The moment that

these words were heard by Táj ul-Mulúk he opened his eyes, arose, came

before the fairies, and, weeping, inquired if they knew where Bakáwalí

was. Their hearts melted within them. They said they had not seen her,

but had heard that she was in a temple in Ceylon, the gates of which

remained closed during the day and were open during the night; adding

that Bakáwalí’s body was changed to stone from her waist downward. The

prince inquired in what direction was her present abode, and how far it

was from the place where they were standing. They answered: “Leaving out

the inconvenience of travel, if a person were to journey all his life he

would never reach it.” Táj ul-Mulúk despaired on hearing this, and then,

bidding adieu to life, commenced dashing his head against the stones. The

fairies, compassionating his case, consulted among themselves, with a

view of devising such measures as would enable them to carry him to the

desired quarter, and there leave him to the fate that might befall him.

They removed him instantly, and, in the saying of a word, placed him in

the land of Ceylon.



After a moment his despair was somehow cheered with hope. He gazed upon

a city which rivalled Paradise in loveliness, surrounded as it was with

every surprising object. Not one of the men or women appeared to be

ugly there. Nay, the very trees were so symmetrical as to strike the

beholder with wonder. Rambling about, he at last found himself in the

public thoroughfare, where he met a Bráhman, who was a devotee. Of him

he inquired: “In what shrines do you offer up your prayers?” The Bráhman

answered: “In that of Rájá Chitrasan,[196] who governs this country.” The

prince next asked: “How many temples are there in this city?” The Bráhman

satisfied his inquiries, and then added, that lately a new temple had

been discovered in the south, the doors of which were never opened during

the day, and no one knew what it contained. The prince was delighted at

this intelligence, and took his way as pointed out, until he reached

the building and sat down patiently. In the night one of its doors

suddenly opened. He entered and found Bakáwalí half in her original form

and half petrified, reclining against the wall. On beholding him she

was much astonished, and inquired how he had come thither. The prince

gave a faithful account of his adventures. The night was then passed

in conversation. And when morning was about to dawn Bakáwalí bade him

depart, “for,” said she, “if the sunbeams find you here you will be

changed into a shape like mine.” She then pulled out a pearl from her

earring and gave it to the prince, and desired him to sell it and use the

proceeds for his own subsistence for a few days. The prince took it to

the city and sold it for some thousands of rupís. He then bought a house,

and having furnished it, engaged a number of servants. It was usual with

him to pass his nights with Bakáwalí and return home in the morning, and

thus several years rolled away.



In the meantime the prince had become acquainted with many of the

inhabitants, who generally undertook to escort him through the city. In

one of his walks he came upon a party of naked creatures, on whom every

mark of poverty was visible. He observed that these men, although in the

garb of beggars, had still some tokens of nobility in their features,

and inquired: “What may be the cause of this?” His friends answered that

some of those individuals were actually princes, and some the sons of

nobles, but they were all the victims of love.[197] “The Rájá Chitrasan

has a daughter named Chitrawat,[198] who is as bright as the moon—nay,

more, she is a star in the heaven of loveliness. Amongst women she is

perfectly unrivalled. Grace is visible in her steps and magic in her

eyes.[199] Thousands die before her arching eyebrows, and hundreds of

thousands are entrapped in her raven tresses: those tresses that are

darker than night—nay, darker than the fate of her lovers. Her eyes teem

with nectar and poison. In one moment they can kill, in another, restore

to life. In her love there is nothing but suffering, sorrow, and loss of

reputation.[200] In brief, she is really a fairy, whose charms enslave

both infidels and Muslims. But what is worse, she has two companions

whose beauty has also wrecked the peace of many. One is the daughter of

a betel-seller[201] and is called Nirmalá;[202] the other is the child of

a gardener and is called Chapalá.[203] All three are sincerely attached

to each other. Sitting or rising, in all concerns of life, they are

inseparable companions. Moreover, each is at liberty to choose her own

husband. But hitherto none has proved so fortunate as to be honoured with

the favour of either of those beauties.”



Some time after this the prince found himself under the balcony of

the Princess Chitrawat, and beheld thousands gazing longingly on her

bright features, even as the bulbul regards the blushing beauties of

the rose. Like maniacs, they were blubbering amongst themselves, while

she, the proud beauty, sat on her balcony exulting at the view of their

sufferings. It was at this moment that Táj ul-Mulúk appeared. Their

eyes met. The shaft of love passed at once through her heart. She was

wounded. Her patience was lost, and sense forsook her for the time.

Down she fell, and her attendants ran and lifted her up. They sprinkled

rose-water on her face, put a scent-bottle to her nostrils, and she

presently revived. She was, however, still motionless and speechless,

and although several inquired the cause of her indisposition, she

returned not a word in answer, but continued gazing steadfastly in the

same direction. Then it was that Nirmalá looked down from the window

and discovered the prince; and after hearing all the circumstances of

the case from Chitrawat, comforted her friend thus: “O princess, your

sufferings distract me, and make me lose my equanimity. Why are you

anxious? Your father has already made you mistress of your own hand, and

it depends upon your choice to marry any one you may love. Be comforted:

the youth on the black charger shall be thine, though he should be even

an angel. Depend on me; I will entrap him in such a way that escape

will be altogether impossible.” She then deputed a female go-between to

undertake the work.



Boldly did this woman come forward, and seizing the reins of the prince’s

horse, “Knowest thou,” she asked him, “that the poor are sacrificed and

lovers impaled here? The fair lady of this palace can bind the hearts

of all in her glossy tresses, and at one glance cast them dead upon

the earth. Whence is thy boldness, that thou castest thy glance on the

mansions of kings? Art thou a spark able to melt the hearts of the fair

ones, and to dissolve their stony nature? Whence art thou? What country

dost thou inhabit? Where is thy native land? And what is thy family?” Táj

ul-Mulúk at once divined that she was sent by some one, and answered:

“Silence! Do not re-open my wounds. My native land is brighter than the

sun, and the name of it is known to emperors. Tell the person who has

deputed you, not to cast a glance on such a distressed traveller as

myself, nor harbour any thoughts in her heart that may have the slightest

reference to love:



    Go to him who will approve thee;

    Love him only who can love thee.”



The artful go-between then ascertained that he was a prince of the East,

that his name was Táj ul-Mulúk, and that his connections were high. These

particulars she communicated to Chitrawat.



After this the prince frequently passed along the same road, so that

he might have an opportunity of looking up at the balcony. Even as the

moon wanes from her fourteenth night, so did the health and spirits of

the princess, who pined inwardly for him. She tried long to keep the

secret to herself, but her attempt was in vain. In a few days even her

parents came to know of her sufferings. Her father, the king, employed

an accomplished dame to repair to Táj ul-Mulúk, and try all her arts

to bring about a marriage between him and his daughter; at all events,

to endeavour by every means to gain his heart. The woman faithfully

performed her mission and dwelt long on commendations of the charms of

the princess. Táj ul-Mulúk returned his respects to the king, and said

that he was a wanderer from his country, that he had exchanged the robes

of royalty for the troubles of travelling, and that he had alienated

himself from relations and friends; therefore, to propose an alliance

with him was like tracing figures on water and tying the wind in a napkin.



When this message was delivered to the rájá it made him sadly thoughtful,

and drove him to ask counsel of his minister, who assured him that it

was not a difficult matter for the king to bring a houseless stranger

into subjection. He even offered to undertake such measures as should

ultimately entrap him; and his plan was to bring a charge of theft

against the prince. Now it so happened that the pecuniary resources

of Táj ul-Mulúk were altogether exhausted, and, as he was purposing

applying to Bakáwalí, he recollected the jewel which he had taken from

the serpent and concealed in his thigh.[204] He sent for a surgeon and

had the jewel taken out, afterwards curing the wound by means of his

wonderful ointment. When he had fully recovered, he took the gem to the

bazár; but every jeweller was struck with surprise, and declared himself

unable to pay the price. They informed the vazír that a stranger had

come into the city, wishing to dispose of a jewel which none but the

king could purchase. The minister on hearing this caused the stranger

to be arrested and brought before him, and knowing him to be the prince

with whom Chitrawat was in love, he lost no time in bringing a charge of

robbery against him and committing him to prison. He then told the king

that the bird that had flown away from the cage was ensnared again, and

would doubtless comply with the wishes of the sovereign.









CHAPTER VIII.



    THE PRINCE IS MARRIED TO CHITRAWAT, BUT, VISITING BAKÁWALÍ

    EVERY NIGHT, HIS NEW BRIDE COMPLAINS TO HER FATHER OF HIS

    INDIFFERENCE, AND THE RÁJÁ SENDS SPIES TO DOG HIS STEPS—THE

    TEMPLE IS DISCOVERED AND RAZED TO THE GROUND, AND THE PRINCE IS

    IN DESPAIR.





Rájá Chitrasan used every endeavour to make the prince suffer all the

woes of imprisonment to compel him to marry his daughter; but what

caused the greatest pang in the heart of Táj ul-Mulúk was his absence

from Bakáwalí. Night and day he wailed and dashed his head against the

walls and door, till at length the gaoler informed the king that the new

prisoner was suffering much, and if not soon released would certainly

die, and his blood would be on the king’s head. To this the king answered

not a word, but sending for his daughter desired her to go to the prison

and cast the shadow of her bright face on the prince. “Perhaps,” said

he, “like the moth, he may flutter in the lustre of your beauty, and his

pride be reduced to ashes.”



Chitrawat received these instructions with delight. She adorned herself

with all care, and thus heightened the effect of all her natural

charms, and attended by Nirmalá and Chapalá, like the moon with Venus

and Mercury in her train, she proceeded to the prison. On entering,

this Zulaykhá encountered her lover, whose beauty was still equal to

that of Joseph.[205] In all her loveliness she stood before him. Her

teeth glittered like pearls of the purest water, and the redness of her

lips would have shamed the blushing ruby. Her neck shone with silvery

whiteness. As she moved, the richest odours were diffused from her

garments, and _’itr_[206] breathed around her person. Her almond eyes

were enchanting to behold, and her amber cheeks spread fragrance far and

near. The dimples on her chin attracted the hearts of all beholders; but

virgin modesty forbade her to expose to view the pomegranates of her

breasts. Nothing, however, would attract the notice of the prince. In a

word, when Chitrawat found that the magic of her eyes and the fascination

of her brow had no effect upon the heart of the prince, she fell before

him and struggled with her sufferings. Then it was that the prince felt

pity and drew her to his arms, and consented to marry her, for he saw

that unless he did so there was no chance of his release.



Nirmalá communicated the happy intelligence to the rájá, and informed him

that the princess had returned home successful in the object she had in

view. The rájá immediately ordered the liberation of the prince, caused

him to be taken to a splendid bath and arrayed in royal garments, after

which he appointed a mansion for his use. In an auspicious hour he joined

him and his daughter in wedlock according to the rites and ceremonies of

the country. When Táj ul-Mulúk entered the chamber of Chitrawat, he found

Nirmalá and Chapalá in attendance. They received him with great warmth,

which was not returned by the prince.



When a quarter of the night was over, he rose from the nuptial couch, and

took his way towards Bakáwalí’s temple, where that fairy, not having seen

him for some time, was longing for his return. As soon as her eyes fell

on the prince her heart rejoiced, but the moment she saw his hands and

feet tinged with the hue of myrtle, her jasmine-like face reddened with

anger.[207] “Well, prince,” said she, in a taunting manner, “you have

come at last; but what a fashion you have adopted! You have drowned the

name of lover, and shamed the character of faith on earth. Henceforward

never dare to love, or proclaim yourself a lover. What hast thou done,

O cruel one? Is this thy gratitude, that, while I am changed to a stone

here, thy fingers boast the redness of the myrtle? Whilst I pine here in

loneliness, thou reposest on the couch of luxury; and while my heart is

breaking for thee, thou enjoyest pleasures with some other rosy-coloured

damsel! While I die here for thee, how canst thou be happy, O Táj

ul-Mulúk?”



On hearing these words the prince expressed the sincerest regret, and

answered: “Beloved, whither are your thoughts wandering? Although I am

a famous prince, yet I regard myself as your slave—all that is mine is

also thine. From the day when I first beheld you, nothing has pleased me

so much as the sight of your charms. Friends, luxuries, mirth, music, my

mind disowns them all alike, being constantly fixed on you. And since I

am entirely your own, how can I be attracted by the beauty of others?

Do not mistrust me: my love is too sincere to suffer any change, and

the allegiance I owe you can never be turned aside. I can never have any

concern with others when I have placed life and death in your hands.

But what could I do? I was powerless and in prison. I had no intention

whatever of marrying another, but had I not done so, there was no hope of

release. If I had not complied with the wish of another, how could I have

seen you again? I should have died in confinement, and you would have

remained pining in this temple. Hence I married.”[208]



Bakáwalí replied in wrath: “Why have recourse to such falsehoods? Can

any one be married by compulsion? It is sufficient: I have examined your

faith and love. May you be happy! I will remain content with my misery,

knowing well that in the day of distress none but God is our friend.”

With a breaking heart did the prince hear these words. He heaved a deep

sigh and wept. Bakáwalí could not endure this; she joined him in tears,

and both continued sobbing for some time. At last the prince fell at her

feet and she raised and embraced him. “I am not seriously angry with

you,” she said; “all that I have spoken was but to try your fidelity. I

am happy in your happiness, and am the last person to be indignant with

you.” In this way they went on, till the prince explained how he was

compelled to marry Chitrawat, and at length succeeded in dispelling all

suspicions from her mind.[209] When morning dawned he returned home, and

took his place beside his new bride.



Thus night after night the prince passed with Bakáwalí, and the day in

conversation with Chitrawat, who was naturally very much out of temper at

such conduct. She wondered how it was that her own charms had no effect

on the heart of her husband, and ultimately complained to her father of

the ungracious manner in which she was treated by the prince. Spies were

appointed by the king to watch the nocturnal movements of Táj ul-Mulúk.

They discovered him wending his way to the temple of Bakáwalí, where he

passed the night, and whence he returned at early dawn. When the king was

informed of this, he caused the temple to be demolished and the stones

cast into an adjacent stream. On the following night, Táj ul-Mulúk, as

usual, went to visit Bakáwalí, and finding no vestige of the temple, he

rolled on the ground and exclaimed:



    “If I of thee a trace could find,

      To that spot I’d willing go;

    But I’m powerless: if the earth

      Would open wide, I’d sink below!”



At length, overcome by despair, he gave free vent to his tears, and

finally returned home. For some days sorrow and hopelessness were his

inseparable companions; but when he became convinced that another

meeting with Bakáwalí could never take place, and that his grief was

of no avail, he turned his attention to the enchanting conversation of

Chitrawat, and then it was that the buds of her hopes expanded, touched

by the zephyr of his love, and the shell of her desire was made fragrant

with the pearls of his affection.









CHAPTER IX.



    BAKÁWALÍ IS RE-BORN IN THE HOUSE OF A FARMER—WHEN SHE IS OF

    MARRIAGEABLE AGE THE PRINCE AND CHITRAWAT MEET HER AND THEY

    ALL THREE PROCEED TO HIS OWN COUNTRY, WHERE HE IS WELCOMED

    AFFECTIONATELY BY DILMAR AND MAHMUDA—BAHRAM, THE SON OF ZAYN

    UL-MULUK’S VAZÍR, FALLS IN LOVE WITH RUH-AFZA, THE COUSIN OF

    BAKÁWALÍ.





They say that the ground on which the temple of Bakáwalí once stood

was tilled by a farmer, who sowed it with mustard-seed. Táj ul-Mulúk

often repaired thither to gaze upon the fields, which were spread with

carpets of the richest verdure. When the plants emerged from the soil and

blossomed the prince visited the fields each morning and evening, and

thus addressed them:



    “Flowers of the field! how fare ye here?

    Love’s fragrance in your bloom I find;

    From earth emerging ye appear—

    Say, where’s the charmer of my mind?”



In due time the mustard-plants ripened, and the farmer reaped his crop

and put it in the oil press. Peasants are generally accustomed to try

the first fruits of their fields themselves. Hence it happened that the

farmer’s wife, partaking of a dish prepared with the oil thus produced,

became pregnant, although she had hitherto been sterile. In due course

she gave birth to a fairy-faced daughter, whose presence illumined the

heretofore dark abode of the farmer. It was soon noised abroad that

a hitherto sterile woman had brought forth a fair daughter through

the virtue of some mustard oil. As for the infant, the neighbours all

declared that, while even now the splendour of her countenance eclipsed

that of the moon, when she should have reached her fourteenth year it

would excel the glory of the sun itself.



When Táj ul-Mulúk heard of this wonderful occurrence, he summoned the

farmer and his babe to his presence; and the moment he cast his eyes upon

the latter, he recognised the features of his beloved, and was convinced

that Bakáwalí had been thus re-born in the farmer’s humble abode.[210]

He gave the farmer a large sum of money and desired him to bring up the

infant with every possible care. When she was seven years of age, many

were the applications made for her hand in marriage; but the farmer,

remembering that the prince had shown a deep interest in her welfare,

knew not how to decide. To all he replied that when the girl came to

be of marriageable age, she should have free permission to choose her

husband. When she was on the verge of her tenth year,[211] Táj ul-Mulúk

sent a messenger to her father, demanding the hand of his daughter in

marriage. The farmer trembled when he heard this, saying: “How can a poor

farmer dare to make the king’s son-in-law the husband of his daughter?

Should I even do so, the result must be that her position will be that

of a slave; and I cannot think of such a fate for my lovely child.” When

Bakáwalí heard him thus soliloquise, “Father,” said she, “hear me. My

name is Bakáwalí, and I am a fairy. Do not be anxious on my account; for

the rose is always destined to grace the head, and the pearl to adorn

the princely diadem. In answer, desire the prince to wait for a few days

more.” The messenger of Táj ul-Mulúk returned and gave him an account of

all that he had heard. The prince was highly delighted; his sorrows all

vanished. He rewarded the messenger and dismissed him.



The dark days of Bakáwalí having passed away, troops of fairies now came

to visit her, and with them Saman-rú, enrobed with richly-embroidered

garments, and glittering with jewels, and seated on a golden throne.

Bakáwalí changed her dress, put on her ornaments, and when all was ready

she addressed her father, saying: “Hitherto I have been your guest; now

I am about to depart.” She then led him behind the house, and pointed

out a spot which contained hidden treasures under ground. Then she left

him, and ascending the throne, guided by her attendant fairies, alighted

in the mansion where Táj ul-Mulúk was sitting in company of Chitrawat,

Nirmalá, and Chapalá. Bakáwalí entered the chamber alone. On approaching

Chitrawat she embraced her with sisterly affection. Chitrawat was so

much struck with the beauty of Bakáwalí that she sank on her sofa quite

exhausted. Then Bakáwalí recounted her adventures to Táj ul-Mulúk, and

heard his in return. She asked Chitrawat if her heart still glowed with

love for the prince, “because, if so, my house is yours.” Chitrawat

replied: “I live only in the prince; and when he departs, how can I

continue to live? I am ready to go with you.”



On a sign from Bakáwalí, her attendants made themselves visible; and it

is related that when they appeared, Ceylon was so densely filled that no

space of four fingers’ breadth even was left unoccupied:[212] confusion

reigned throughout the city. Even the king was dismayed, and sought the

shelter of his palace. The moment he entered Táj ul-Mulúk rose to greet

him. He went a few steps in advance, and led the king to a seat on his

own throne. He then gave him a detailed history of his love for Bakáwalí.

For some time the king seemed much distressed; but at length signs of joy

were visible in his countenance, and rising from his seat he placed the

hands of his daughter into those of Bakáwalí, saying: “I trust my only

child to you; not, indeed, as a rival, but as a slave. My only hope is,

that you will not withhold your kindness from one who is bound to regard

you as her superior.” He then gave them leave to depart.



Táj ul-Mulúk ascended the fairy throne; Bakáwalí and Chitrawat sat on

either side of him; while Nirmalá and Chapalá stood respectfully before

them. In a moment the throne alighted on the threshold of Táj ul-Mulúk’s

palace, and the two princesses entered. Bahrám,[213] the son of the

minister of Zayn-ul-Mulúk, who had been left in charge of the palace and

gardens of the prince, came forth to welcome his master and mistress

home. Táj ul-Mulúk received him graciously, accepted his presents,[214]

and rewarded him with a robe of honour. He then entered the palace, and

was received with the utmost delight by Mahmúda and Dilbar, with whom, as

well as with Chitrawat and Bakáwalí, the stream of life glided through

peace and tranquility.



       *       *       *       *       *



Historians relate that Táj ul-Mulúk addressed letters to Fírúz Sháh,

Muzaffar Sháh, and his father, communicating to them the happy

intelligence of his return. The perusal of these letters afforded much

pleasure to the recipients, who forthwith set out to meet him. Fírúz Sháh

and Jamíla Khatún set out for the East attended by splendid equipages.

Muzaffar Sháh and Husn-árá followed their example. Zayn ul-Mulúk, with

his lawful wife for his companion, and his army preceding him, went after

the other princes to the country of Nighárín,[215] which they reached

in a few days. They observed that its vicinity was so crowded with men

and fairies that there was not sufficient space left to plant a seed of

sesamum even.[216] Táj ul-Mulúk and Bakáwalí were highly delighted to

receive their guests. Sorrow departed from the heart of each. Nought

was heard but songs and music—nought was seen save dancing and mirth.

With the fourth day the feast ended, and the princes departed, highly

pleased with the hospitality of Táj ul-Mulúk. But Bakáwalí prevailed upon

Rúh-afzá to remain with her a few days longer, and a carnelian room was

set apart for her sleeping chamber.



It happened one night, when Rúh-afzá was sleeping near the window, that

her flowing locks descended therefrom, and a bright gem was glittering

in one of the ribbons that tied her tresses. At that time Bahrám was

roving about, enjoying the moonlight scene. As he approached the window,

his eyes fell on the gem glittering there. He thought that a dragon was

holding his jewel in his mouth.[217] But on looking more attentively,

he perceived that it was a ruby glittering in a lock of hair which

had escaped from the window. He then supposed that the room must be

occupied by Bakáwalí, and that the lock of hair was hers. All that

night he knew no rest. When morning dawned he could restrain himself

no longer. He asked Saman-rú whose chamber that was, and she told him

it was Rúh-afzá’s. The moment he heard this the fire of love blazed in

his heart, and maniac-like he wandered to and fro. The next midnight he

watched for an opportunity, applied a scaling-ladder to the window,

and entered the chamber. There he saw the rival of Venus sleeping

gracefully on a golden bed. Beholding this, he became senseless, like

one intoxicated, and as he was yet a stranger to the pleasure which

was now stealing through his veins, incontinently he threw himself on

the bed, embraced the fairy and kissed her rapturously. That instant

Rúh-afzá started up and found that the intruder was Bahrám; and though

she secretly loved him, she was displeased at this breach of the rules of

decency. She pretended to be highly offended and slapped him till he was

fairly pushed out of the window, and Bahrám retired weeping to his own

apartment.



Next morning Rúh-afzá begged permission of Bakáwalí to depart: and

although the latter endeavoured to persuade her to prolong her visit,

she was resolute, for she was well aware that if Bakáwalí came to know

of the incident of the last night, she would laugh at her and plague her

with her sarcastic remarks. At length she bade adieu to her fair hostess,

and set out for the island of Firdaus. But love accompanied her; for her

thoughts were only of Bahrám. No comfort came to her by day, and no rest

through the live-long night. Her eyes were always moist with tears, and

the simúm of grief withered the bloom of her cheeks.









CHAPTER X.



    BAHRAM IS LONG LOVE-SICK, BUT BY THE HELP OF TWO SYMPATHISING

    FAIRY DAMSELS IS FINALLY UNITED TO THE BEAUTIFUL RUH-AFZA, AND

    ALL ENDS HAPPILY.





Meanwhile Bahrám became thinner and thinner every day; but Saman-rú alone

knew the cause. She was constantly advising him to chase away from his

heart that love for a person of another race, which could only render

him unhappy. “The example,” said she, “of the perfect union which exists

between Táj ul-Mulúk and Bakáwalí should not lead you astray. It is a

happy exception. But it is contrary to the nature of things for a human

being to join himself to one of etherial substance.” These words made

no impression on the mind of Bahrám, and when she saw that the thorn of

love had pierced so deeply into his heart that it was hopeless to attempt

its extraction, she declared that all she could do was to conduct him to

Firdaus. Bahrám eagerly accepted this offer, and Saman-rú then clothed

him in women’s apparel, which suited him well, as he was yet beardless,

and carried him through the air to Firdaus, to the house of her sister,

called Banafshá,[218] who was hair-dresser to Rúh-afzá. The latter was

delighted at seeing Saman-rú, and at once asked who was the young lady

whom she had brought with her. “She is one of my friends,” said she,

“who desires to see this country. I have taken the liberty of bringing

her to you, in hopes that you will be so good as to show her all the

sights.” “Certainly,” said Banafshá; “I am willing to do anything that

might please you.” After this Saman-rú returned to Bakáwalí, and Bahrám

remained in the house of Banafshá, who showed her every kindness, led

her each day into a different garden, and pointed out everything worth

seeing; in the evening she discharged her duties as hair-dresser to

Rúh-afzá.



One evening Banafshá presented Bahrám to her young mistress, as a friend

of Saman-rú. She at once recognised Bahrám, in spite of his disguise, but

dissembled so well that he believed she did not know him. She induced

Banafshá to leave the young person with her. Therefore she withdrew and

Bahrám remained with his mistress. And when the Eternal Designer of the

affairs of this world had illumed the earth with the clear light of the

moon, Rúh-afzá led Bahrám into her private chamber, and said: “What is

your name, madam?” He replied: “I have had no name for a long time: I

only know yours.” “Why have you come here?” “Ask the taper: it will

tell you why the moth throws itself into the flame.” These pleasant

words gratified Rúh-afzá, but, affecting a severe countenance, she

said: “You are deceiving me; for I observe from your words that you are

not a woman. You have entered here by false pretences, and have thus

exposed my honour to the wind. Say, yourself, what punishment does such

hardihood deserve?” Poor Bahrám, who was quite ignorant of the artifices

of coquetry, and remembered the hard blows of his mistress on a former

occasion, thought that she was about to strike him again and drive him

from her presence. He trembled through fear and repeated these verses:



    “Kill me; for better ’tis to die before

    Thy sight, than live to suffer more and more.”



Then he fell down quite unconscious, and Rúh-afzá, not being able to

carry her feigned severity farther, ran up to him, put his head on her

knees, showered kisses on him, and by the sweet perfume of her breath

brought back his senses.



When Bahrám opened his eyes he perceived that he had assumed the _rôle_

of the Rose and Rúh-afzá that of the Nightingale.[219] Soon did he forget

his former vexations. Rúh-afzá, who was violently in love with him,

did not wish him to leave her, so to conceal him from the looks of the

malicious she fastened round his neck a talisman which changed him into

a bird.[220] In this form she kept him in a golden cage, which was hung

up before her eyes during the day, but at night she caused him to come

out, and restored him to his proper shape. This continued for some time;

but, as the Hindú proverb says, “love and musk cannot be long hidden”;

and Husn-árá began to suspect that all was not as it should be with her

daughter. One morning, at daybreak, she went to her daughter’s chamber,

and beating her, exclaimed: “You have drowned yourself in a vase full of

water! You are lost to all shame! You have disgraced the name of your

father! Let me at least know the name of your audacious accomplice,

else I will strangle you with my own hands!” These violent words caused

Rúh-afzá to tremble. “Dispel, my dear mother,” said she, “your vain

dream. I have never seen a mortal but at a distance. Should a kind

mother believe the gossiping reports of strangers?” But in spite of her

most vehement protestations, her mother believed her not; she insisted

that the ravisher who was in the house should be seized and punished

as he deserved. By her order cunning spies were employed to search for

Bahrám—in the earth, the air, and the sea, but without success: they

were all ignorant of the secret of the golden cage.[221] Husn-árá,

despairing at the failure of her spies, scolded her daughter’s maids, and

threatened them with the wrath of Muzaffar Sháh; whereupon one of them,

called Gul-rukh,[222] pointed out the mysterious cage, saying that she

had often observed Rúh-afzá, both night and day, caressing the dove which

was shut up in it;—might it not be surmised that there was some secret

in that circumstance? Immediately Husn-árá proceeded to her daughter’s

chamber and seized hold of the cage. Rúh-afzá, with horror and dismay,

saw her beloved bird in the talons of the falcon; but, trembling for

herself, she dared not utter a word, still less could she snatch it out

of the hands of the fowler of destiny. Husn-árá carried the cage to her

husband, who drew out the bird, and felt its wings and all its feathers

to see if he could discover any talisman. At last he found what was on

the bird’s neck, and on removing it, Bahrám appeared before him in his

natural form. The attendants were greatly astonished, and Muzaffar Sháh,

wild with passion, said to Bahrám: “Wicked wretch! fear you not my anger?

Death alone can punish thy audacity!” “Sire,” replied Bahrám, “I fear not

death; but I shall deeply regret my beloved mistress in leaving life;

and even in my grave a stream of blood will flow from my eyes.”[223] The

anger of Muzaffar Sháh, far from being appeased by these words, increased

to such a height that he gave orders to his people to go outside the city

and throw Bahrám into the fire, so that he should be reduced to ashes.



By good fortune, Táj ul-Mulúk and Bakáwalí were at that moment walking

together in the garden of Iram, and as they were not far from

Jazína-Firdaus, they determined to visit Rúh-afzá. On going thither they

passed the very spot where Bahrám was about to be burnt. He was already

on the fatal pyre, with the flames surrounding him. Bakáwalí, seeing the

pyre and the great crowd around it, ordered her chariot to draw near and

cried out: “Extinguish the fire and bring that young man to me. I shall

cause a thousand of you to be put to death, if you do not—ay, and raze

all your houses to the ground!” These threats greatly disconcerted the

officials, so they put out the fire and led Bahrám before the princess,

who made him enter her chariot, and conducted him into a quiet garden,

where leaving him with Táj ul-Mulúk, she then proceeded to visit Muzaffar

Sháh and Husn-árá, who received her with the greatest kindness, and after

embracing her, inquired the occasion of her visit. “It is mere chance,”

said she, “which brings me to you; but I have seen on my way hither an

incident which caused me great pain: some of your people were about to

burn the son of my father-in-law’s vazír, and, but for my interference,

he would ere this have been reduced to ashes. Why did you dream of giving

such instructions? Would his death change anything that has occurred?

Would it efface the _tika_[224] of slander? Supposing a hundred persons

already know of the adventure of Rúh-afzá, presently it will be known

to thousands. What you should rather do is pardon Bahrám his fault, and

marry him to your daughter; for he is full of spirit and of a handsome

appearance. If you despise human nature so much, why did you marry me to

Táj ul-Mulúk? Is there any difference between your daughter and me?”



Muzaffar Sháh bent his head on hearing this remonstrance, and said he

would think over it. Then Bakáwalí went in search of Rúh-afzá and found

her in tears; but patting her on the head she said smilingly: “You have

cried enough; wash yourself, change your dress, and come forth from your

cell. I have brought back your lover, safe and sound, and hope that you

will soon be married.” Rúh-afzá thanked Bakáwalí and embraced her most

affectionately, and the cousins remained together all night.[225] On the

morrow Bakáwalí led Rúh-afzá before her parents to be reconciled to them,

after which she set out with Táj ul-Mulúk and Bahrám for Jazíra-i Iram.

She related to her father and mother the story of Rúh-afzá and Bahrám,

and persuaded them to do for the latter, without loss of time, what her

uncle had done for Táj ul-Mulúk. They agreed, and, having clothed Bahrám

in royal robes, proceeded in great state to Firdaus, where suitable

arrangements had been made to receive the marriage procession, which soon

arrived at the palace of Muzaffar Sháh. The wedding guests were conducted

into the reception room, where dance and music continued the whole night.

After the ceremony of the collar and betel, they brought the bridegroom

into the interior of the palace, in order to accomplish the formalities

which still remained to be performed. Bakáwalí behaved towards Bahrám

as though she had been his sister. She held for him the Kurán and the

looking-glass, and made him drink the cup half-emptied by Rúh-afzá.[226]

When all these ceremonies had been performed, Muzaffar Sháh and Husn-árá

gave to their daughter, on the day of separation, a considerable dowry,

great quantity of ready money as well as jewels and slaves. Fírúz Sháh

and Táj ul-Mulúk at the head of the nuptial procession returned to

Jazír-i Iram, where they continued the festive rejoicings for several

days, after which Bakáwalí and her devoted husband conducted Bahrám and

his bride in great splendour to Mulk-i Nighárín. The father and mother

of Bahrám were overjoyed at the sight of their beloved son, and warmly

expressed their gratitude to Bakáwalí, who had brought him such great

good fortune. To celebrate the marriage of his son, the vazír gave a

grand banquet, to which great and small were alike invited, and even

the king himself honoured it with his presence. The festival continued

for several days. Everybody received presents; money was distributed

in abundance—all were delighted. After the king had been escorted back

to his palace and all the guests had retired to their homes, Bakáwalí

summoned Hammála, and ordered her to transport her palace to that spot,

which was soon accomplished, when she presented it to Rúh-afzá and Bahrám

for their residence. Thus terminated the adventures of these lovers: each

was content and happy.



MAY GOD GRANT TO EACH OF US THE LIKE FAVOUR!









PERSIAN STORIES.









PERSIAN STORIES.









THE THREE DECEITFUL WOMEN.





Once on a time there were three whales of the sea of fraud and

deceit—three dragons of the nature of thunder and the quickness of

lightning—three defamers of honour and reputation—in other words, three

men-deceiving, lascivious women, each of whom had, from the chancery

of her cunning, issued the diploma of turmoil to a hundred cities and

countries, and in the arts of fraud they accounted Satan as an admiring

spectator in the theatre of their stratagems. One of them was sitting

in the court of justice of the Kází’s embraces; the second was the

precious gem of the bazár-master’s diadem of compliance; and the third

was the beazle and ornament of the signet-ring of the life and soul of

the superintendent of police. They were constantly entrapping the fawns

of the prairie of deceit, with the grasp of cunning, and plundering the

wares of the caravan of tranquility of the hearts of both strangers and

acquaintances by means of the edge of the scimitar of fraud.[227]



One day this trefoil of roguery met at the public bath, and, according

to their homogeneous nature, they intermingled as intimately as a comb

with the hair: they tucked up the garment of amity to the waist of

union, entered the tank of agreement, seated themselves in the hot-house

of love, and poured from the dish of folly, by means of the key of

hypocrisy, the water of profusion upon the head of intercourse; they

rubbed with the brush of familiarity and the soap of affection the

stains of jealousies from each other’s limbs. After a while, when they

had brought the pot of concord to boil by the fire of mutual laudation,

they warmed the bath of association with the breeze of kindness and came

out.[228] In the dressing-room all three of them happened simultaneously

to find a ring, the gem of which surpassed the imagination of the

Jeweller of Destiny,[229] and the like of which he had never beheld in

the store-house of possibility. The finger of covetousness of each of

the three ladies pointed to the ring, and the right of its possession

became the object of dispute among them. But after their controversy had

been protracted to an undue length, the mother of the bathman,[230] who

had for years practised under the sorceress Shamsah[231] and had learnt

all sorts of tricks from her, stepped forward and said: “I am a woman

who has seen the world, and I have experienced many events of this

kind. Something has occurred to me with reference to this matter, and if

you will listen to my advice your difficulty will be solved. As I am a

faithful and honest person,” the old woman continued, “you may entrust

this ring to me. Each of you must sow the seed of deception into the

field of her husband’s folly, and she whose arrow of fraud shall settle

deepest in the target of her husband’s imbecility, and the rose of whose

act, being watered by the art and care of diligence, shall flourish more

than the plants of her competitors, shall, after due investigation by

myself, be put in possession of the much-coveted ring.” All three of them

agreed to this proposal, and surrendered the ring to the old hag. The

wife of the Kází said: “I shall be the first who writes the incantation

upon the name of the Kází.” Accordingly they dressed in the robe of

cunning, put on the mantle of deception, and departed to their respective

domiciles.





_The Trick of the Kází’s Wife._



In the first place, the wife of the Kází sat down in the court of

meditation and arrangement, and having for the purpose of solving this

problem opened the directory of falsehood, she perused it with great

diligence, scanning it from paragraph to paragraph, from the preface

to the conclusion. It so happened that a carpenter who was the Kází’s

neighbour had long paid attentions to the wife of the latter. He chopped

the tablet of his heart with the axe of uneasiness, and scratched the

board of his body with the plane of lamentation; he was in constant

motion like a saw, and though all his limbs were like a grating turned

into eyes, and he was sitting on the chair of expectation, he was not

able to attain his object; so that the hatchet of longing and burning

felled the palm-tree of his patience and equanimity, and his heart was

perforated by the auger of this grief. As the wife of the Kází was

aware of the sufferings of the carpenter, she called her confidential

slave-girl and said to her: “O thou Violet[232] of the garden of harmony,

the flower of whose body I have so long cherished in the parterre of

education! I have a little business which I mean to discharge this day

by the aid of thy intimacy. If thou wilt accomplish it cheerfully, I

shall ransom thee with my own money, and rejoice thy heart with various

gifts.” The girl replied: “Whatever my mistress orders, it is my duty

to perform.” The wife of the Kází said: “Go, unobserved by any one, to

the carpenter and tell him that the flame of his love has taken effect

on my heart; that I am aware of his having suffered torments on account

of my unkindness; and that on the day of resurrection I shall have to

answer for the sufferings I have caused to him: I am quite embarrassed

in this matter, and, in order to remove this awful responsibility, I am

prepared now to make good my past transgressions, and to meet him if

he will dig an underground passage between this house and his own, so

that we may be enabled to pluck the roses of mutual love whenever we

choose, and communicate freely by means of this passage.” The maid went

to the carpenter, and caused by the nectar of her eloquence this message

to bloom in his garden of hope. He presented the girl with a thousand

dínars[233] and said:



    “I would ransom thee with my life,

    O idol of the garden of purity!

    I shall gird my loins for thy service

    In a hundred thousand places.



It is a lifetime since I began to burn on the thread of exclusion and

separation, and put the collyrium of longing into the eye of desire to

behold that paragon of the world.



    Melancholy for thee inspires my breast;

    Desire for thee permeates my heart!

    Thy behests I shall never disobey;

    Thy will I shall follow with my soul.”



The carpenter dug a spacious passage between the two houses, and the lady

arrived by means of it in her lover’s domicile. When the carpenter beheld

the Jacob’s house of mourning of his heart illuminated by the Joseph’s

lamp of the coveted interview, he said:



    “Welcome, my faithful idol!

    My hut is the envy of Paradise.

    Come, moon-like mistress, come!

    Come, tender sweetheart, come!

    Thy elegant speech is coquetry;

    Thy gait is graceful as the rose:

    Thou art the cynosure of love!

    Thou art the model of tenderness!”



After mutual congratulations and compliments, that title-page of the

ledger of amorous intrigues said to the carpenter: “To-morrow I shall

come here, and you must bring the Kází to marry me to you.” When the

lady had explained the particulars of this matter to him, he drew the

hand of obedience over the eyes of compliance; and when on the next day

the kází of the morn placed the seal of brilliancy upon the volume of

the firmament, and the shaykh-sun seated himself upon the carpet of the

Orient and manifested himself by the consequence of light and brightness,

the Kází hastened from his haram to the court of justice. His tender

mistress, however, betook herself to the house of the carpenter, who

forgot the grief of separation, dressed himself in gaudy clothes, and

waiting on the Kází said: “O spreader of the superficies of the law, and

strengthener of the pillars of the affairs of mankind,



    No matter in this world can be

    Arranged without thy intervention.”



When the Kází perceived from this allocution that the carpenter came

on business, and concluded that it might be something profitable, he

replied: “Greeting to you! And may the mercy of God be upon your fathers

and ancestors, fortunate and blessed man! Welcome! Rest yourself awhile;

smoke tobacco and drink coffee, whilst you are acquainting me with your

intentions.” The carpenter said: “O Kází, I am a bridegroom and am very

restless to-day on that account: my bride is sitting in the house. As

the moon is this day in the first mansion of the Balance, and in the two

hours and nine minutes that are elapsing of the day it has a triangular

aspect with the sun, a hexagonal one with Jupiter, is in opposition

to Mercury, out of the influence of the Scorpion and the remaining

ill-boding influences, therefore I am of good cheer; and as the hour to

tie the matrimonial knot is quite propitious, I request your lordship

quickly to perform the ceremony.”[234]



As soon as the Kází heard about a wedding, he put the turban of

covetousness on his head, took the rosary of thanksgivings into his hand,

and went with the carpenter to the house of the latter. When he entered

he exclaimed: “Open, O opener of portals!” but when his eyes alighted

on the bride and he recognised in her the mistress of his own haram, a

thousand suspicions beset him; nevertheless he composed himself as well

as he was able, but could not help thinking: “This is a very wonderful

business; and I have never seen two persons resembling each other so

much.” While he thus plunged the pen of his mind into the inkstand of

meditation and amazement, the carpenter exclaimed: “My lord, the time is

passing, and what is the use of delaying?” The Kází looked up, and again

scrutinised the lady, but found no difference between her and his wife,

so he cried: “Praise be to God! There is no power nor strength but by

his will!” Then putting his hand to his breast he said: “What memory is

this?” and arose from his place. The carpenter asked: “O Kází, where are

you going?” The Kází replied: “My good fellow, my ‘Key of prosperity’

has been left in the house, and there is a prayer in it that must be

recited before pronouncing the matrimonial formula, in order to procure

the mutual enjoyment of the newly married couple.” Accordingly he went

to the house, but was forestalled by his spouse, who entered it through

the secret passage and lay down on her bed. When the Kází arrived and

saw his wife in this position he said: “I ask pardon of God from all

that displeases him in words, deeds, thoughts, or intentions! To what

a strange suspicion have I given way! May God forgive me!” His wife,

on hearing these exclamations, yawned and turned from one side to the

other, and said: “Violet, did I not tell you to allow no one to enter

this room, so that I might repose for a time?” Quoth the Kází: “Beloved

partner! there is no stranger. Excuse me, and pardon me for having

harboured evil suspicions concerning thee.” The wife replied: “Perhaps

you have become mad!”



The Kází again returned to the carpenter’s house, but his wife had

preceded him and was sitting in her former place. As soon as he looked at

her the same suspicions overwhelmed him, and he exclaimed in amazement:

“O Lord of glory! I have fallen into a strange predicament, and am, as it

were, between two screws of the horns of a dilemma that presses me, on

the one hand, quickly to perform the ceremony, and, on the other hand,

rather to defer it.” Then said the carpenter: “My lord Kází, I see you

despondent and hesitating in this business; and although you ought not

to expect anything from me because I am your neighbour, yet I will give

you these thousand dínars to hasten your proceedings, because the time

is elapsing.” No sooner did the Kází see the money than he put it at

once into his pocket and began: “In the name of God, the Merciful, the

Clement,” and continued to read the matrimonial formula till he arrived

at the words, “I marry,” when he perceived a black mole on the corner of

his wife’s lip, which he had so often kissed. He felt uneasy, and the

sugar of the thousand dínars was bitter in the palate of his greediness,

he again lowered his head into the collar of meditation and said within

himself: “O assembly of genii and men! are you able to withdraw

yourselves from the precincts of heaven and earth?” The carpenter

exclaimed: “O Kází, I really do not know the reason of your delay, nor

from the fountain of what pretence the water of this procrastination

is gushing.” The Kází smiled and thus replied: “O carpenter, we are

the sureties of legal affairs, the successors of the prophets, and the

pontiffs of the laws and canons of the ways of guidance. In every affair

that we perform we must attentively consider a thousand subtleties, lest

we should become liable to blame in the next world by the commission of

a fault. Why are you in such haste? All affairs in this world succeed

only by civility and patience, and not by confusion and impatience.

Thou resemblest that shepherd who was one day engaged in pasturing his

flock and became very thirsty. As a village was very near, he left his

sheep and entered it to look for water. He happened to pass near a tree

under the shadow of which a schoolmaster was teaching a crowd of boys.

After looking for a while, he perceived the teacher reposing and issuing

orders, and the boys humbly obeying him in all things and occupied in

melodiously rehearsing their lessons. This sort of employment disgusted

the shepherd with his own calling, and he thought: ‘While I am able to

learn this trade, I do not see why I should spend my whole life to no

profit by running about the fields with a lot of sheep. I must change

the profession of a shepherd for that of a schoolmaster, and then I

shall spend my days in comfort, like this man.’ Accordingly he stepped

forward and said: ‘My good master, I have a great inclination to learn

your business; please instruct me in it.’ When the master looked at the

figure and aspect of the shepherd, he was astonished, and saw he was an

ignorant fellow who had no capacity. For the sake of fun, however, he

took a piece of paper, wrote the alphabet on it, and said to the man:

‘Be seated, and read this.’ The shepherd asked: ‘Why do you not teach

me from these large books?’ Said the master: ‘You are but a beginner,

and you cannot read books till you have learned the alphabet.’ Quoth the

shepherd: ‘Master, what letters are you speaking about? Please fill me

with them now, for my flock roams about without a shepherd, and I have

no time to sit down and learn the alphabet.’ The schoolmaster smiled

at this and drove the shepherd away. O carpenter,” continued the Kází,

“do not fancy every business to be easy. Now I meditate and study how

to divide the possessions of a certain wealthy man, who died yesterday,

among thirty-two men who have inherited them. This has just occurred to

my mind, and I was engaged in multiplication and division.” Then the

Kází again glanced at the lady, and beginning to feel uneasy arose once

more. The carpenter asked: “O Kází, what fancy is moving you now, and

causes you to look so confused?” Said the Kází: “This transaction is one

of the greatest importance according to the religious law. It cannot

be performed unless after the general ablution, about the completeness

of which a doubt has just arisen in my mind; therefore I must return to

my house and renew it.” The carpenter answered: “You can wash yourself

here.” Quoth the Kází: “No, by God! I never perform my ablutions with

water which I have not seen before, and I have all the arrangements for

purification in my house.”



The Kází returned to his house accordingly, but his wife went before him

through the passage, and was reading a book when he entered her room.

He exclaimed: “I ask forgiveness from God, and I repent of all my sins

and transgressions.” The lady looked at him in astonishment, and said:

“This day I perceive the neck of your intellect confined in the halter

of a lunatic fit. How many times have you come and again gone away after

holding a soliloquy as madmen are wont to do! If you have become subject

to such a distemper, and do not take the proper steps to cure it, I shall

not be your nurse.” Said the Kází: “O Bilkís[235] of the compact of

prudence and innocence, to-day I have indulged in a suspicion regarding

thee: I have made a mistake—forgive me!” The wife answered: “The worst

people in the world are those who indulge in evil imputations, and those

of yours must be expiated.” She then gave a few dínars to Violet, bidding

her distribute them among the poor as a penitential expiation. After this

the Kází took an apple from his pocket, cut it in twain, and gave one

moiety to his wife, saying: “Though apples have many qualities, the chief

of them is to increase conjugal love: I intend to go to the bath.”



Putting the other half of the apple in his pocket, the Kází returned

to the house of the carpenter. His wife preceded him as usual, and sat

down in her place. When he drew near he saw the half of the apple in her

hand, and was greatly amazed, but said nothing, for fear of offending

the carpenter, who cried out: “O Kází, tell me for God’s sake what you

have to say, and why is all this going and coming and all this delay?

If this affair is disagreeable to you, I shall bring Shaykh Jahtás,

or Mullah Allam-Abhuda, the servant of the college, to perform the

matrimonial ceremony. O Kází, I expected more kindness from you as a

neighbour. This business is not worth so much haggling about, and if you

wish more than the thousand, take these five hundred dínars.” When the

Kází saw this additional sum of money he was overpowered by covetousness

and exclaimed: “I take refuge with God from the lapidated Satan![236]

I marry and couple!” Then his eye again alighted on the countenance

of his wife and he saw she wore the ruby necklace which he had bought

for three thousand dínars. He shook his head and said: “Every now and

then I must somehow stop: I do not know what is again distracting my

attention,” and he glanced once more at his wife. Quoth the carpenter:

“O Kází, your amorous looks have convinced me that your desires are

centred in the possession of this lady, for your eyes constantly wander

over her countenance. If this be the case, do not make a secret of it,

that we may consult her opinion on the matter.” The Kází thought within

himself, that, as the carpenter was an ignorant and illiterate man, he

might play a trick on him, and recite something else instead of the

marriage formula, so that, if his suspicions proved to be well-founded,

he might be able to annul the marriage. So he sat down on his haunches

and recited: “Iazghára, Iajargára Aftanys Salanká, Dáma Talkuvára,” etc.

Then he spoke to the carpenter: “Say, ‘I agree.’” But as the carpenter

had frequently heard the marriage formula, he answered: “Kází, this is

a formula read to country fellows and retainers. I have given thee one

thousand five hundred dínars to marry me like one of the grandees. I am

not a child to be thus played with: this formula is not worth twenty

dínars. Either return me the money or recite the proper manly formula.”

Quoth the Kází: “You are but a working man, carpenter, why then do you

entertain such high pretensions? I have just now read to you the formula

which I made use of in marrying Mullah Abdullah, the householder in the

market, yet you want a formula used for grandees, scholars, and judges,

and to give me a headache!” The carpenter replied: “I also covet science

and distinction.” Said the Kází: “How will you convince me of that?” The

carpenter continued: “I know the story of the ‘Sun and Moon.’[237] I have

heard the tale of ‘Sayf ul-Mulúk and Badya’á ul-Jumál.’ I have likewise

seen ‘The Road to the Mosque.’ My father used to pass once every day

near the school-house of Mullah Namatullah Kylak.” Said the Kází: “There

is no science or perfection higher than this. I did not know the degree

or limit which thou hast attained.”[238] In consequence of this irony

of the Kází, the carpenter put a feather in his bonnet[239] and said:

“There is no excuse.” Once more the Kází attempted to begin the formula,

but when he looked at the half of the apple that was in the lady’s

hand, he cried: “Woman, give me that half-apple!” She complied, and the

Kází took the other half from his pocket, and by placing the two halves

together he found them to fit exactly. The carpenter exclaimed: “Kází,

apparently some jugglery is going on here! What delusion are you subject

to every moment?” The Kází replied: “I have done this simply to produce

conjugal love between you.” Then he again rose and wanted to go to his

house for the purpose of verifying his surmises, but the lady turned to

the carpenter and said: “Foolish man, hast thou brought me here to marry

me, or to make a laughing-stock of me? I have never before seen such

proceedings. I think his eyes have become subject to [the disease called]

pearl-water.” The Kází took no notice of these remarks, but hastened

to his house, where his wife met him with these words: “O Kází, thou

resemblest those people who have the pearl-water in their eyes.” Said

he: “There is no God but _the_ God! The other woman has spoken the same

thing. Tell me at all events what is the distemper called pearl-water.”

His wife answered: “Pearl-water is a humour caused by heavy particles in

the stomach rising into the head, and from thence descending into the

eyelids, which injures the eyes, so that different persons appear to be

the same, and cannot be distinguished from each other. If this malady is

not cured it degenerates into blindness.” Quoth the Kází: “Perhaps this

is because I have not kept my depraved appetite in subjection. Several

days ago I was with the superintendent of police in the house of Kávas

the Armenian, who had died; we went there to take an inventory of his

goods and chattels for the Amír. The children of Khoja Kávas had, by way

of a sweetmeat, something baked in hog’s blood; as I was hungry and this

food happened to be delicious, I ate somewhat freely of it; and as it had

been prepared from the property of the deceased man, it may possibly have

had its consequences.”[240]



A third time the Kází returned to the carpenter’s house, and when he

beheld his wife, and glanced stealthily at her, the lady was wroth

and said to the carpenter: “This fellow is every now and then casting

amorous glances at me, and through my connection with thee I have lost my

reputation. Either drive him away or forfeit my company.” Quoth the Kází:

“Respectable virgin and honourable lady, in all matters consideration is

useful.” The carpenter lost his patience and exclaimed: “You have nearly

killed me with your folly and loquacity. I do not wish any longer for

marriage. If thou hast considered this woman worthy of thy haram, why

hast thou for so long a time been undecided?” Whilst the carpenter was

thus talking, they heard the voice of the muezzin, and he exclaimed:

“Alas, it is noon[241]—the propitious hour has elapsed!” Said the Kází:

“You are a carpenter; you know how to handle the saw and the axe, to

make windows and doors. But what idea have you of the rotation of the

spheres—about good and bad stars and hours? This science belongs to our

profession.” Then taking an almanac from his pocket and opening it, he

said: “The moon is a luminary of quick motion. Yesterday she entered the

sign of the Balance, but has so quickly travelled through the degrees

that she feels tired to-day and is still reposing, and will not travel

to-morrow. From hour to hour till to-morrow, inclusive, wedding dinners

and other feasts are propitious. I shall now go to my house and prepare

a medicine for the pearl-water of my eyes, as it will probably hinder me

from studying.” But the carpenter and the lady seized the Kází, one on

either side, and said: “Mayhap the affairs of this world are only a play!

By Allah, we shall not let thee go ere thou hast tied the matrimonial

knot.” Quoth the Kází: “Let me go, else I shall immediately write a

mandate for the capital punishment of both of you.” They rejoined: “May

the columns of the house of Khoja Ratyl, the merchant, fall upon you, if

you do us the least harm!” Upon this the Kází turned his face upwards

and prayed: “O Judge of the court of justice of destiny, protect me

from the evil of all mad persons and from all malefactors, and grant me

health and peace! Thou judgest—thou art the sovereign Judge!” As he had

no alternative now but to marry the lady to the carpenter, and as at

that time it was customary for the bride to kiss the hand of the Kází

after the termination of the ceremony, the lady stepped forward for this

purpose; but the Kází was so anxious to mark his wife for identification

afterwards, that he struck her such a blow on the cheek with his clenched

hand as to cause her to bleed profusely. Then he ran into his own house,

where he found his wife disfiguring her face and crying out: “I renounce

such an adulterous husband, who is carrying on an intrigue with the

carpenter’s wife.” She and her maids then took him by the throat and

pulled off his turban, and he fled into the street. The carpenter, who

had heard the noise, came out, and seeing him with his head uncovered

placed his own turban on it, and said: “O Kází, women are of an imperfect

understanding, and quarrels between husbands and wives have taken place

at all times. If you have lost your senses, this can easily be remedied

by taking up your lodging for a few days in a madhouse, until your spouse

repents of her deed.” And so the Kází went to repose himself in a lunatic

asylum.



       *       *       *       *       *



The secret-knowing bulbul of the musical-hall of narratives, namely, the

pen, thus continues its melody: After the wife of the Kází had severed

the robe of his conjugal authority with the scissors of deceit, she again

stitched it with the needle of fraud, and invested with it the bosom of

the wretched Kází’s imbecility by means of the above-narrated tricks.

Then she sent word to her two accomplices, that she had drawn the bow of

machination to its utmost extent by the exertion of her skill, that she

had with the arrow thereof hit the target of the conditions stipulated,

and that now the field was free to them for the display of their cunning.





_The Trick of the Bazár-Master’s Wife._



The blandly-ambling pea-fowl of the pen continues the narrative as

follows: Now it was the turn of the bazár-master’s wife, whose tricks

were of a kind to instruct Iblís in the laws of deceit and fraud.[242]

She began to weigh all kinds of stratagems in the balance of meditation,

to enable her to decide what course of roguery would be best for her

object. She happened to have a nurse who had also attained the highest

degree of intrigue by the instigations of Iblís, and was her assistant

in all her devices; so calling this woman, and anointing with the balsam

of flattery the limbs of her attachment, she said: “O beloved and kind

mother, the ornaments and pictures of my house of fraud and cunning are

the offspring of thy instructions. It is long since the bond of amity

was torn between me and my husband. In spite of all my endeavours, I am

unable to cope with his sagacity; but I trust in thy affection, and hope

that we shall be able to arrange this matter by thy assistance.” The

nurse answered: “Ornament of the tribe of the lovely!



    My soul is longing and my eyes waiting,

    Both to be sacrificed at thy behest.



As long as the child of the spirit remains in the cradle of my body, and

the milk of motion and rest circulates in the members of it, I cannot

avoid obeying thy commands. I sincerely comply with all thy orders.” Then

said the wife of the bazár-master: “As I was one day coming from the

bath, the son of a banker was walking in the lane. And when the smoke

of the torch of my tenderness reached his nostrils, he fell from the

courser of the intellect upon the ground of insensibility and followed me

everywhere with groans and sighs; but the vanity of seeing myself beloved

allowed me not to sprinkle the rose-water of a glance upon the face of

his expectation. When he arrived at the door of my house, he sobbed, and

then went away. I know that the bird of his heart is captivated by the

pursuit after the grain of this phantom, and is imprisoned in the meshes

of exclusion. I want thee to go to him and convey to him the following

message: ‘From that day when the chamberlain of carelessness hindered

me from admitting thee to the intimacy of an interview, I dreamed every

night fearful dreams, and am to this day at all times so much plunged

into the drowning waters of uneasiness, that it has become plain to me

that all this is the consequence of thy disappointment and exclusion. Now

I wish to remedy my incivility by promenading a little in the gardens

of thy love and attachment. As the bazár-master will be engaged till

the morning in some business, the house will not be encumbered by his

presence. So put on a woman’s veil, bring wine and the requisites for

amusement, and come hither, that we may sweeten our palates with the

honey of meeting each other.’”



After the lady had despatched her nurse to the banker’s son, the

bazár-master arrived, and his wife thus addressed him: “Beloved husband,

to-morrow, one of the principal ladies of the town, whose acquaintance

I have made at the bath, will come to me on a visit. As it is for my

interest to receive her with all possible courtesy, you must remain in

the town-hall to-morrow until evening. Send in the supplies required for

a handsome entertainment, and please to arrange all in such a manner as

we shall not reap shame from anything.” The bazár-master lighted the lamp

of acquiescence in the assembly of compliance and said: “Let it be so.”



When the banker of morn sat down in the shop of the horizon, and when the

unalloyed gold of the sun stamped in the mint of creation with the legend

of brilliancy, and the light began to ascend towards the meridian of the

sphere, the son of the banker put on costly garments, perfumed himself,

and threw over his clothes a large veil, and taking under it a flask of

ruby-coloured wine, proceeded with a thousand joyful expectations to the

mansion of his mistress, who had, like the crescent moon on a festive

eve, gone to meet him with open arms as far as the vestibule of the

house, saying:



    “To-day my moon visits me with joy,

    And renews the covenant of love with his light.



Thou art welcome! For the rays of thy sun-like countenance have made

my humble cottage the object of jealousy of the palaces of Europe, and

delightful, like Paradise!



    Come! For without thee I cannot endure life:

    The eyelids of my repose meet not sleep without thee.

    I wish not for the water of immortality through Khizr:

    Thy cheeks are not less to me than immortality.”



The lady took him into the interior apartments, divested him of the veil,

threw the hand of amity over the neck of his affection, begged his pardon

for her past offence, entangled with kindness the feet of his heart in

the stirrup-leathers of hope, then entirely undressed him, and said:

“Rest thyself comfortably in this secret apartment until I go and bring

the requisites for company and music, when we shall enjoy ourselves.”

She went out and said to her female attendants: “When I go in again,

you must call the bazár-master into the house and say: ‘Our lady has

brought a strange man, with whom she is amusing herself and drinking

wine.’” Then she returned to the young man and kept him company. In the

meantime her husband was informed of what was going on in his house, and

becoming greatly excited, sent in a servant to inquire. The lady said

to the youth, in seeming perplexity: “This coming of my husband is not

without a cause—perhaps he has a notion that you are here.” The youth,

trembling with terror, said: “Alas, I shall lose my life through this

affair; for the bazár-master is jealous, and will injure me.” Then the

lady opened a chest and said to the young man: “Conceal yourself in this

chest until I see what will come of the business;” and having locked

the box and put away the youth’s clothes, she met her husband, who was

inflamed like an oven. Throwing her arms round his neck, she exclaimed:

“Darling of my soul! I see thee greatly discomposed and confused—what

is it?” He replied: “My reason is unwilling to put faith in what I have

heard, and I want you to tell me the truth.” The lady smiled and said:

“What thou hast heard is quite true. The lamp of my heart was for a long

time blazing in the assembly of love towards a young man; the palm-tree

of his imagination likewise bore the fruit of attachment to me; and now I

have brought him and am in his company. Love is innate in human nature,

but has never manifested itself between me and thee. Hast thou not

heard of Laylá and Majnún, or read the story of Yúzuf and Zulaykhá? Is

there anyone in the world who has not felt the pangs of love? He in the

mother-shell of whose heart affection finds no refuge has indeed reaped

no fruit from the spring of life.



    Love is the ornament of the rose-grove of the heart;

    It is the guide and leader to each mansion.

    The breast is a lamp whose flame is love;

    The heart is a shell, and love the pearl in it.

    The lamp without a flame is the grave;

    Without a pearl the shell has no light.



O bazár-master!” she continued, “there is no man or woman who has not

tasted the pleasures of this passion; it is inherent in life, and its

exhilarating breezes invigorate the rose-garden of politeness. There is

no animate being whose nostrils have not been perfumed by the fragrance

of the garden of love: perhaps I have no heart, and am no human being?

How long shall I dwell with thee? In all circumstances a change of

climate becomes necessary. My unfortunate friend has been long prostrated

on the bed of sickness for the love which he bears to me, and on account

of his exclusion. Humanity and compassion are the chief corner-stones of

Islám, and what shall I answer on the day of resurrection if I do not act

in compliance with these two duties? Hast thou not heard that a mendicant

must not be sent away unrelieved, and that if an ant creep away with one

grain the stores will not be diminished?



    No harm befalls the granary

    If a poor ant obtains half a grain.



A hundred thousand persons drink water from one fountain, and several

people eat fruit from one date-tree. What deficiency will be entailed

upon the rose-grove of my tenderness if the odour of a rose bring

tranquility to the nostrils of an unfortunate man? Quench the thirst of

a thirsty man with a drop of water, and rescue a fainting one from the

labyrinth of distress; for good acts are a dam to misfortunes. Be not

melancholy, O bazár-master, for in the banquet of my existence the plates

of my tender delicacies are so numerous that a thousand persons like

thyself may be satisfied by them for many years.”



The bazár-master said, with astonishment: “Worthless, foolish, and vain

woman, what senseless words are you saying?” She replied: “I swear, by

the gratitude due for thy affection and friendship, that everything I

said was only fun and dissimulation. But if you have any doubts on the

subject come and see for yourself.” She then led the way, and her husband

followed her until they reached her chamber. When he beheld the youth’s

clothes, the arrangements for drinking, and the decorations, he began to

blaze up like a flame, and to ferment like a tub of wine—in short, he was

quite beside himself, and asked: “Where is the young man?” She answered:

“He is in that chest. I have concealed him in it, and if you do not

believe it, take the key—open and look.” The bazár-master had no sooner

taken the key than his wife burst into laughter, clapped her hands, and

exclaimed: “I remember, but you forget!” Her husband threw down the key,

and said: “Miserable woman, you have destroyed my patience. Was it worth

while thus to trifle with my affection?” With these words he left the

house; but during the conversation the young man was like one suspended

between death and life. When it was evening the lady opened the chest,

and said to him: “Leave this place quickly, and remove the spectacle of

this intention from your eyes, for you were near being invested with the

robe of a lover.” The young man thanked God for having preserved his

life, and fled precipitately.[243]



       *       *       *       *       *



After the bird of the bazár-master’s wife had laid this egg in the nest

of deceit, she informed the spouse of the superintendent of police that

she had also spread her net and captured the coveted game; and that now,

the field being free, she was prepared to see what fruit the tree of her

friend’s accomplishments would bear.





_The Trick of the Wife of the Superintendent of Police._



The narrator of this tale causes the rose-bud of his rhetoric to

blossom from the dew of composition as follows: When the wife of the

superintendent of police was apprised that her turn had come, she

revolved and meditated for some time what trick she was to play off upon

her lord, and after coming to a conclusion she said to him one evening:

“To-morrow I wish that we should both enjoy ourselves at home without

interruption, and I mean to prepare some cakes.” He replied: “Very well,

my dear; I have longed for such an occasion.” The lady had a servant

who was very obedient and always covered with the mantle of attachment

to her. Next morning she called this lad and said to him: “I have long

contemplated the Hyacinth[244] grove of thy symmetrical stature. I know

that thou travelest constantly and faithfully on the road of compliance

with all my wishes, and that thou seekest to serve me. I have a little

business which I wish thee to do for me.” The lad answered: “I shall be

happy to comply.” Then the lady gave him a thousand dínars and said: “Go

to the convent which is in our neighbourhood, give this money to one of

the Kalandars,[245] and say: ‘A prisoner whom the Amír had surrendered

to the police escaped last night. He resembles thee greatly; and as the

superintendent of police is unable to give account of his prisoner to

the Amír, he has despatched a man to take thee instead of the escaped

criminal. I have compassion for thee and mean to rescue thee. Take this

sum of money; give me thy dress, and flee from this town; for if thou

remainest till the morning thou wilt be subject to torture and lose thy

life.’”



The lad acted as he was ordered; brought the Kalandar’s garments and

handed them to his mistress. When it was morning the lady said to her

husband: “I know you have long wished to eat sweetmeats, and, if you

will allow me, I will make some to-day.” He said: “Very well.” His wife

then made all things ready and began to bake the sweetmeats, when the

superintendent of police said: “Last night a theft was committed in

such a place and I sat up late to extort confessions; and as I have had

a sleepless night, I feel tired and wish to repose a little.” The lady

answered: “Very well;” so her husband reclined on the pillow of rest;

and when the sweetmeats were ready she took a portion, and after putting

an opiate into one she roused him, saying: “How long will you sleep?

This is a day of feasting and pleasure, not of sleep and laziness. Lift

up your head and see if I have made the sweets according to your taste.”

He raised his head and ate a piece of the hot cake and presently a deep

sleep overcame him. The lady at once undressed her husband and put on

him the Kalandar’s garments, and the slave-boy shaved his beard and made

tattoo marks on his body.



When night had set in the lady called to the slave-boy: “Hyacinth, take

the superintendent on thy back and carry him to the convent in the place

of that Kalandar, and should he wish to return home in the morning do

not allow him.” The lad obeyed; and towards morning the superintendent

recovered his senses a little, but as the opiate had made his palate very

bitter he became extremely thirsty. He fancied he was in his own house

and bawled out: “Narcissus,[246] bring water.” The other Kalandars awoke,

and after hearing several shouts of this kind they concluded he was under

the effects of bhang and said: “Poor fellow! The narcissus is in the

garden. This is the convent of sufferers, and there are green garments

enough here. Arise and sober thyself; for the morning and harbinger of

benefits, as well as of the acquisition of victuals for subsistence,

is approaching.” When the superintendent heard these words he thought

they were in a dream, for he had not yet fully recovered his senses. He

sat quietly, but was amazed on beholding the vaults and ceiling of the

convent. He got up, looked at the clothes in which he was dressed, and

at the marks tattooed on his body, and began to doubt whether he was

awake or asleep. He washed his face, and perceived that the caravan of

his mustachios had likewise departed from the plain of his countenance.

In this state of perplexity he went out of the monastery and proceeded

to his house. There his wife and servants had made their arrangements

and were expecting his arrival. Approaching the door and knocking for

admission, Hyacinth demanded: “Whom seekest thou, O Kalandar?” “I want

to enter the house.” Quoth the slave-boy: “Evidently thou hast taken

thy morning draught of bhang more copiously than usual, since thou

hast thus foolishly mistaken the road to thy convent. Depart! This is

not the place in which vagabond Kalandars are harboured. This is the

mansion of the superintendent of the police, and if the símurgh should

look uncivilly at this place from his fastness in the west of Mount

Káf,[247] the wings of his impertinence would be at once singed.” The

superintendent replied: “What nonsense is this thou art speaking? Get out

of my way, for I do not relish thy imbecile prattle.” But when he would

have entered, Hyacinth dealt him a blow on the shoulder with a bludgeon,

which the superintendent returned with a box on the ear, and they began

to wrestle together. Just then the lady and her slave-girls rushed forth

from the rear and assailed the superintendent with sticks and stones,

shouting: “This Kalandar wishes in broad daylight to force his way into

the house of the superintendent, who is unfortunately sick, else he would

have hanged the rascal.” By this time all the neighbours were assembled

before the house, and on seeing the Kalandar’s shameless proceedings they

exclaimed: “Look at that impudent Kalandar, who wants forcibly to enter

the house of the superintendent!” Ultimately the crowd amounted to more

than five hundred persons, and the superintendent was put to flight,

pursued by all the boys of the town, who pelted him with stones.



At a distance of three farsangs from the town was a village, where the

superintendent concealed himself in a corner of the mosque. In the

evenings he went from house to house and begged for food to sustain life,

until his beard grew again and the tattoo marks began to disappear.

Whenever any one inquired for the superintendent at his house, the

answer was, that the gentleman was sick. After a month had passed, the

grief of separation and the misery of his condition had again drawn the

superintendent back to the city. He went to the monastery because fear

hindered him from going to his own house. His wife happened one day to

catch a glimpse of him from a window, and perceived him sitting in the

same dress with a company of Kalandars. She felt compassion for him, and

thought: “He has had enough of this!” Making a loaf and putting an opiate

into it, she said to the slave-boy: “When all the Kalandars are asleep,

go and place this loaf under the head of the superintendent,” which he

did accordingly. When the superintendent awoke during the night and found

the loaf, he supposed it had been placed there by one of his companions,

and ate part of it and fell into a deep sleep. Some hours afterwards, the

slave-boy, as directed by his mistress, went to the convent, and taking

the superintendent on his back carried him home.



When it was morning the lady took off the Kalandar’s dress from her

husband and clothed him in his own garments, and then began to bake

sweetmeats as on the former occasion. After some time the gentleman began

to move, and his wife exclaimed: “O superintendent, do not sleep so much.

I have told you that we are to spend this day in joy and festivity, and

it was not right of you to pass the time in this lazy manner. Lift up

your head and see the beautiful sweetmeats I have baked for you.” When

the superintendent opened his eyes and saw himself dressed in his own

clothes, the rose-bush of his amazement again brought forth the flowers

of astonishment, and he cried: “God be praised! What has happened to

me?” He sat up, and said: “Wife, things have occurred to me which I can

hardly describe.” Quoth the lady: “From your uneasy motions during sleep,

it appears that you have had very strange dreams.” “Strange dreams!”

echoed the husband. “From the moment I lay down I have experienced the

most extraordinary adventures.” The lady rejoined: “Assuredly! Last night

you ate food which disagreed with your stomach, and to-day its vapours

seem to have ascended into your brains, causing you all this distress.”

Said he: “You are right. Last evening I was with a party at the house of

Serjeant Bahman, where I heartily partook of a pillau, and it has surely

been the cause of all my trouble.”



       *       *       *       *       *



When the three companions in the lists of deceit had executed their

different stratagems, they went according to arrangement to the same

bath, in order to state their cases to the old hag who had promised to

award the ring to the most cunning of the three ladies; but to their

surprise and chagrin they learned that she had departed to another

country, thus outwitting them all, and kept the coveted ring for herself.









THE ENVIOUS VAZÍR.





In days of yore and times of old there was a merchant in Yaman of the

name of Khoja Bashír, who was adorned with all good qualities. He enjoyed

the intimacy of the king’s society, and the star of his good luck was

so much in the ascendant with the king’s favour that the splendour of

the lamp of his presence was constantly illuming the courtly assembly

of royalty, which could never for a moment dispense with it. The king

was accustomed to avail himself of his advice in all grave and subtle

affairs, and rewarded him with many favours. But his majesty had a Vazír

of an envious disposition, the merchandise of whose unhappy temper was

neither current nor acceptable in the warehouse of humane qualities. This

Vazír hated Khoja Bashír because he was superior to himself in ability

and was much in the king’s intimacy. He thus reasoned with himself: “It

is probable that the king will become alienated from me and confer the

vazírate upon Khoja Bashír. It is every man’s duty to look after his own

affairs and endeavour to remove his enemies. While Khoja Bashír continues

to drink from the cup of life and dress in the robe of royal favours,

the colour of distress will never be removed from the face of the sun

of my quietude, nor can my heart rest for a moment in peace. Therefore

I must make the utmost efforts and concoct a plan by which Khoja Bashír

will not only lose the regard of the king but be either put to death or

exiled from this city.” Day and night this purpose was uppermost in his

mind, until on one occasion he happened to be alone with the sultan, and

availing himself of the opportunity he said to his majesty:



    “O king of high lineage and great power,

    By thy existence the throne’s glory is honoured!

    May the flag of thy prosperity and grandeur always adorn the sphere!

    The very dust of thy court brightens the eye of dignity!



As, according to the canons of government and the administration of

affairs, vazírs are called the keys of the treasury of the regulations

of business, and the bankers of the good and evil transactions of the

governments of honoured potentates, I venture to trouble your majesty

about a matter which has taken place in opposition to the customs of

obedience.” The king said: “Speak,” and the Vazír thus proceeded: “Two

things injure the edifice and the dignity of government: one is to

lightly esteem honoured and respected persons, and the other is to exalt

those who are mean and nameless. Every one who seeks the shadow of the

humaí of prosperity and of royalty must for several reasons keep in mind

these two things. Khoja Bashír, the merchant, who is placed on the upper

seat of your majesty’s proximity and regard, is a man of low extraction,

a criminal, and notorious for his immorality. His wife is an adulteress,

who has stepped quite beyond the pale of modesty, and scruples not to

be present and to roam in all assemblies and crowds and associate with

all sorts of vagabonds and profligate persons. And it is a matter of

astonishment that, with all your perfections and wisdom, your majesty

should have fallen into this heedlessness.” As the king had many times

tried the character of Khoja Bashír on the touchstone of examination and

experience, and had never discovered a flaw in the gem of his essence

and qualities, he was amazed, and, refusing to assent to the accusations

of the Vazír, he said to him: “It is scarcely possible that I should

associate with a man of that description. I have found him perfect, and

the pure gold of his morals void of the dross and alloy of vices. What

you say about his character is far from probable, and you must establish

your asseveration by witnesses and proofs, that I may believe it, else I

shall punish you with the utmost severity.” The Vazír now regretted and

repented of what he had said, but asked the king for a week’s respite;

and during that time his mind was day and night wandering like a pen over

the plain of composition, and meditating by what ruse he might strike the

lightning of defamation into the granary of the modesty of Khoja Bashír’s

wife.



In that city lived a deceitful old hag, who was well skilled in all

sorts of cunning tricks. The Vazír sent for her, and, after anointing

all the limbs of her expectations with the oil of promises, he said to

her: “There is an engagement between me and the king, and for my purpose

I require you to bring me, in any way you possibly can, some token from

Khoja Bashír’s wife.” The old crone answered: “By my soul! I shall

endeavour my utmost to do you this piece of service.” Next day she put on

an old tattered dress, and assumed the appearance of a poor and destitute

creature; and going to the house of Khoja Bashír, as if to beg, wished

to enter, but the porter repulsed her, upon which she exclaimed: “O

accursed one! hast thou not heard that



    ‘Whoever impedes the begging of the poor

    Is a mean wretch, who will go to hell’?



What loss wilt thou suffer if I go into the prosperous house of the Khoja

and the ant of my hope obtain one grain of profit from the storehouse of

his succour?” She again put forth the foot of effort to gain admittance,

but the porter held his staff before her, and said: “The Khoja is at

present with the king, and I cannot allow any person to enter in his

absence.” Hereupon the old woman threw herself upon the ground, and

screamed: “The doorkeeper has killed me!” She bit and wounded her limbs,

besmeared them with blood, and cried: “Alas, my little ones will be

orphans!” When the wife of the Khoja heard the clamour of the hag she

sent the eunuchs out, and when they saw an old woman lying on the ground,

apparently in the agony of death, they asked her: “Who art thou, and what

has happened to thee?” She replied: “I am a poor, weak, old woman, and

have come to the prosperous mansion of the Khoja in the hope of obtaining

assistance, but in consequence of my unfounded expectations my life has

fallen a prey to the winds of annihilation from the beating inflicted

on me by the doorkeeper.” The eunuchs blamed the porter, saying:

“Unfortunate man! The removal of misfortunes and the attainment of

high degrees are connected with the advent [and relief] of mendicants.

Art thou not ashamed of having so unmercifully stricken this old

beggar-woman?” The porter swore to the untruthfulness of her assertions,

and related the whole matter, after which the eunuchs communicated the

facts to the wife of the Khoja, who was very kind-hearted, and said to

them: “Bring the poor creature in, by all means, that I may investigate

her case; for destitute persons and darveshes are the caravan of God’s

mercy and pity, and to injure them kindles the flame of his anger.”



The eunuchs wrapped the old hag in a carpet and carried her before the

Khoja’s wife, who at once applied to her nostrils different perfumes,

such as castor, sandal, and aloe. After a while the old crone opened her

eyes and let loose the general of the caravan of deceit, namely, her

tongue, in praises and good wishes for the lady, saying: “Noble lady,

may you obtain the approbation of God, and may your future circumstances

be still more prosperous! Had my weak limbs not been strengthened by

the balsam of your kindness, the stamina of my life would have been

disturbed by the grasp of death in consequence of the ill-treatment

which I received from the doorkeeper, and my little children would have

been afflicted by the bitter poison of becoming orphans.” Then she began

freely to weep and lament, saying: “O treacherous Destiny! thou hast

thrown me into the heart-burning flames of the death of Khoja Távus, my

husband. Was it not enough to deprive me of so great a blessing, and

to subject me to the trials of poverty, and to compel me to seek for a

precarious maintenance for my children, and to induce me to do things

of which my slaves would have been ashamed? O noble lady, I was a woman

of honour and reputation, and of a very high family, but the reverses

of Fortune have deprived me of my husband and property, and driven me

away from the mansion of tranquility and comfort. Every day a thousand

destitute and worthy persons were supplied from the table of my bounty.

But one day I sent a mendicant away empty-handed, and on that account

the torrent of diminution has overthrown the castle of my affluence, and

reduced me to this needy condition. The poor are the spies of the palace

of monotheism: to give them alms, and to treat them well, is an occasion

of the increase of the vernal garden of God’s favour; but to disappoint

them brings on the destruction of the mansion of comfort and life.



    If thou debar a beggar of aid

    Thou wilt enjoy no pleasure.

    The prayer of the mendicant

    Will preserve thee from ill luck.

    Give thy scraps to the poor,

    That thou mayest always prosper.



O respected and noble lady, the fame of Khoja Bashír’s liberal

disposition has to-day induced me to apply at this place. I came here

eagerly to obtain a morsel of your bounty; but as such an accident has

befallen me, God be praised, what other remedy is there but patience and

gratitude? What use is there to contend with Fate?”



By this address the old hag had so well sown the seeds of weeping and

lamentation in the net of incantation, and had so dexterously sung the

threnody of her sadness and poverty, that the unsuspecting bird of the

lady’s simplicity was taken in the meshes of her ruse. The lady wept, and

begged her pardon for the injuries she had received from the doorkeeper,

and said: “Wait until the Khoja returns home, and I will give thee gold

and silver enough for the comfort of the remainder of thy life, and thou

wilt not need to make any more demands on the liberality of others.

Though thou seest much property here, I am not able to dispose of it

without my husband’s permission.” The old crone waited till evening, but

the Khoja had not returned, so she said: “Honoured lady, the Khoja has

not yet come, and my little children, who know that I have taken refuge

at this threshold, are expecting to participate in his bounty.” The lady

divested herself of a robe, handed it to the old trot, and said: “This

dress is my own property; sell it and provide for your orphans, until I

get something handsome for you from the Khoja in the morning.”



The old woman took the robe and hastened with it to the house of the

Vazír, saying to him: “I have obtained an evident token from the wife

of Khoja Bashír.” The Vazír was extremely rejoiced, and proceeded that

very night to the king after the Khoja had departed to say his prayers,

and, showing the dress, said: “May the spheres always revolve according

to the will of your majesty, and may the sun of your prosperity shine

in the zenith of good fortune! Your humble servant has brought a token

of the guilt of Khoja Bashír’s wife, who often comes to me; but, in

consideration of my virtue and of the favour which I enjoy from your

majesty, as well as because of the good will I bear towards Khoja

Bashír,[248] I have always tried to dissuade her from her misconduct and

never admitted her into my house. Last night, however, for the purpose

of obtaining some proof of her guilt I sent for her; she was with me

till morning, and this is a sign of her presence. Even this evening she

came again, but I sent her away. Let this robe be shown to Khoja Bashír,

and if he should not recognise it I shall find means to give him the

particulars.” The king was greatly displeased, and the vazír took his

leave. When Khoja Bashír returned the king said nothing to him about the

affair, and the Khoja, as usual, slept in the palace. But when the belle

of the morn invested herself with the robe of dawn and seated herself in

the edifice of the Orient, the king showed the garment to Khoja Bashír,

saying: “Last night the police met a gang of thieves and took this dress

from them. I wonder whose it may be?” As soon as the Khoja’s eye alighted

on the garment he recognised it, trembled and became pale, and said: “The

dress belongs to one of your servant’s household; but as I have been for

some time in attendance on your majesty, I do not know what has happened

in my family.” Then said the king: “You vile wretch! Are you not ashamed

to keep so guilty a woman in your house, who spends every night in the

company of a fresh lover? Last night your wife was in the house of the

Vazír till morning, and this dress has been brought to me as a proof of

the fact. I am in fault to have admitted such an unprincipled fellow into

my society.” Khoja Bashír was thunder-struck; but as he had no reason to

doubt his wife’s modesty, he knew that this was a trick of the Vazír. He

tried in vain to undeceive the king, who was so excited that he at once

issued orders for his execution, and so he was taken from the palace to

the place where he was to be put to death.



The Khoja had a slave-boy who was much attached to him, and he ran to

the house and informed his master’s wife of what had happened. The lady

said: “There is no harm done. I gave away the dress in charity and for

the sake of gaining favour with the Most High; nor can the promise which

he has given with reference to the beneficent ever fail in its effects,

and he will not allow any ill to befall the Khoja.” She handed a purse

of gold to the lad and bade him give it to the executioners, to induce

them to delay carrying out the sentence on the Khoja, to which they

willingly consented, as they had received many favours from him while

he was in the king’s service. In the meantime the Khoja’s wife threw a

veil over her head and went to the palace, where she found the Vazír,

who had come to prevent any attempt that might be made to rescue the

Khoja. The lady exclaimed: “O king, I seek justice from the tyranny and

wickedness of the Vazír!” Said the king: “What injustice has the Vazír

done you?” She answered: “I am a stipendiary of grandees, and in this way

do I gain my livelihood. It is almost fifteen years since I began to wait

on the Vazír. He promised to give me nine hundred dirhams annually, but

he now presumes upon his high station and gives me nothing. Last night

when I asked him for what is due to me he threatened to have me killed.”

The Vazír was amazed, and on being questioned by the king said: “This

woman speaks what is not true. I swear by the head of your majesty that

I have never seen her nor do I know her.” Then the lady said: “He has

made a false oath by the head of his benefactor! Let him write down his

assertion, and if his treachery should become evident to your majesty

let him be duly punished.” The Vazír arose and scrutinised the face and

stature of the lady, and then wrote a declaration that he had never seen

or known this woman, and that if his assertion proved false he would

resign his life and leave his blood to be licked by the dogs. After the

Vazír had delivered this paper to the king, the lady said: “Let it be

known to the exalted mind of your majesty that I am the wife of Khoja

Bashír, the merchant, against whom this tyrannical individual, to satisfy

his hatred and envy, concocted this stratagem with reference to me. God

the Most High has said that whoever uses cunning towards another shall

also be over-reached by cunning.” She then explained the matter fully,

and added: “As the Vazír declares that he does not know me, how could I

have been with him last night?”



The king became convinced of the treachery of the Vazír, who was

overwhelmed with shame and fell, as it were, into the agonies of death.

Khoja Bashír was by the king’s order immediately brought back from the

place of execution, and his wife returned to her house. The old hag

was produced and examined, but would not confess until the instruments

of torture were brought, when she spoke as follows: “As women are of

imperfect understanding,[249] I cannot be guilty. At the instigation

of the Vazír I entered the house of the Khoja, where that virtuous and

modest lady, his wife, took off the robe from her own body and bestowed

it on me for the sake of God. Disregarding her kindness, the greediness

of my disposition induced me to transgress the straight path, in order

to obtain the reward promised to me by the Vazír.” The king caused both

the Vazír and the old hag to be suspended on the gallows. He approved

the prudent demeanour of the wife of Khoja Bashír, begged pardon of the

Khoja, and installed him into the dignity of the Vazír, whose whole

property he bestowed upon him.









THE BLIND BEGGAR.





There was a man in Tabríz the orbs of whose vision were deprived of the

faculty of seeing, and the stature of his circumstances had lost the robe

of wealth. He went from house to house begging and was in the habit of

chanting these verses:



    “Whoever turns his face from the road of justice,

    His breast will become a target for the shafts of misfortune.”



One day he went about according to his custom, and having stopped near a

rich man’s house, he began to beg, and also recited the above distich.

The master of the house refreshed his thirsty lips with the pleasant

shower of a gift and said: “I have often heard you chant these words;

tell me your reason for so doing.” The blind man thus replied:



“Kind and humane Sir, why do you ask me to relate to you an event which

is sad, and still rankles in my heart? My birth-place is in Syria, near

Damascus. My father in the beginning of his career was a hawker, and in

that business he considered honesty, piety, and justice as the principal

stock-in-trade of the shop of his livelihood. By the blessing of these

upright principles his condition was improved, and day by day the

darkness of his poverty was being dispelled by the lamp of prosperity;

his wealth gradually increased so much that he became a dealer in jewels,

and having with some other merchants undertaken an expedition to Bahrayn,

he bought there a great quantity of pearls and returned home. He engaged

in that business with several assistants and the star of his good fortune

was daily rising till it culminated, and he became one of the wealthiest

men in that country. The diver in the sea of Destiny extracted the pearl

of my father’s life from the shell of his existence. All his property

became mine; and having sat down in the depository of my father’s welfare

and ease, I spread like him the carpet of the self-same employment and

occupation. The tree of greediness for money had struck deep roots in my

heart; and worldliness had obtained such a complete dominion over me that

I was deprived once for all of the reins of self-control. In lucrative

speculations and mercantile transactions I took dishonesty and fraud

into my partnership; and, although I endeavoured to cover the reproving

eye of conscience with the sleeve of prohibition, I was unable to cope

with my insatiable greediness. It is considered as very mean to commence

business in the bazár before sunrise, but I was in the habit of doing

so,[250] and one day, just when I had opened my shop, there came a man

of sinister aspect, from whose face the jaundice of poverty had wiped

off the bloom of health. He began to praise God, and, having drawn from

his pocket a precious pearl, thus addressed me: “Young man, I had once

great riches and possessions, but by a sudden reverse of fortune I was

made penniless in the twinkling of an eye, and all that has remained to

me is this pearl. The destitution of my family and my own difficulties

have compelled me to offer it for sale in order to ward off other evils,

until the breeze of prosperity again begins to blow towards me.” I took

the pearl from his hand, and although it was extremely valuable and I

was astonished at its beauty, purity, and splendour, yet, influenced

by the cunning of our trade, I turned contemptuously towards the man

and said: “This pearl is not so precious as you suppose; your poverty,

however, induces me to buy it. What is the price?” Then I pretended to

busy myself with something else, but the desire to possess the pearl

had pervaded my whole being, and I was afraid lest it should become the

prey of another dealer. The man replied: “Dear friend, though you see

me now in a state of distress, there was a time when I presented many

such pearls to my friends. It is not worth while to make so much about

the sale of a single pearl, and I myself am perfectly aware of its real

value; but as I have come to your shop I should feel ashamed to go

round the others. Your own skill and knowledge are perfectly competent

to decide this matter, and you may offer me whatever you think just

and equitable.” He then handed the pearl to me once more, and though I

contended with my greediness to offer him one half of its value my wicked

nature would not consent. I drew forth twenty dirhams from my pocket and

placed them before him. He took the money, and drawing a deep sigh he

exclaimed: “What justice and humanity!” and went his way. I was highly

pleased at having thus obtained a gem for twenty dirhams which would have

been cheap at a thousand. I drew every moment the comb of complacency

over the mustachios of my shrewdness, and placed the hand of approbation

on the shoulder of my expertness, and never suspected that the day of

retribution would overtake me.



“Only two days had elapsed after this transaction when I again opened

my shop at sunrise, before any other inhabitant of the bazár had begun

to stir. I was arranging my shop when one of the principal citizens

passed on horseback, and, thrusting my head out from the door to see who

the cavalier was, the horse shied, the rider was thrown violently to

the ground and immediately expired. A crowd of attendants that followed

fell on me, beat me with sticks, and then tied my hands. The other

shopkeepers, who were unfriendly towards me on account of my greediness

of gain, began to gather round me; they heartily wished that I might

fall into some scrape, and much as I tried to explain no one paid any

attention; but one of them said: ‘The accumulation of wealth by the

unworthy and dishonest clearly points to accidents like this.’ So much

of this kind of talk passed that the majority were convinced of my

guilt, and declared that I had killed the man. The police, having tied

my hands and neck together, took me before the Amír of Damascus, who was

a rapacious man and coveted riches. He considered this as a very good

opportunity to attain his end; and the guards also said that, by the

coruscation of the Amír’s star of prosperity, this day a wonderfully

fat piece of game had fallen into their hands. No time was given me to

explain: the Amír made a sign that I should be decapitated. Some of the

bystanders, however, pleaded for mercy, and I was fined a thousand gold

dínars.



“By the depredation of this misfortune I was mulcted of more than half

of my property, and, although the loins of my patience had been crushed

by the burden of this loss, I again spread out on all sides the net of

acquisition, and the sportsman of my mind was running about in search

of the game of wealth, when one day, while I was sitting in my shop,

two well-dressed women came up, one of whom had a baby in her arms,

the other carried a casket, and both sat down on the threshold of the

shop. The woman with the child in her arms took some gold ashrafís from

her pocket, and, handing them to the other, said: ‘Give this money to

Haji Jalál Kazviní for the articles which you bought yesterday, and say

that I shall send him the balance to-morrow. Tell him also that he must

quickly procure the jewels which are required, because the wedding is to

take place in ten days. I will wait here for you; return speedily with

an answer.’ When the woman had departed on her errand I became anxious

for gain, because I had heard a wedding spoken of and had seen the gold

ashrafís; so I said to her who remained: ‘Lady of the haram of modesty,

where have you sent your companion?’ She replied: ‘The daughter of such

a citizen is to be given in marriage to the vazír’s son, and we, being

attached to the household of the young lady, have come to the bazár,

because we were in need of some fine linen and jewels; the first we

bought yesterday of Haji Jalál and have now sent him the price, with

orders to procure the jewels as soon as possible.’ On hearing this, I

poured a considerable sum of money into the pocket of my imagination,

and I said to her: ‘Noble and honoured lady, I have many precious

jewels. Allow me to exhibit them to you, and you may choose those which

you consider suitable; there will be no difficulty in agreeing about

the price.’ The woman answered: ‘The lady to whom the jewels are to be

submitted for approbation is very nice in her choice and difficult to

please. During the last few days we have shown her many jewels, but she

desires to see only high-priced gems; besides, we have already bargained

with Haji Jalál and bought jewels of him, and he is very considerate

towards ourselves.’ When she had spoken thus, I knocked at the door of

compliance and observed: ‘Nor would I be disposed to forfeit your good

will, because thereby I should be greatly benefited in the profitable

transaction of business with great people.’ She said: ‘We shall see.’

While we were thus conversing her companion returned and handed her a

string of valuable pearls. She cast a glance at me, whispered something

to her companion, and then continued speaking to her aloud: ‘Since you

have brought them, let them remain also.’ Turning to me, she said: ‘Show

us your jewels.’ I produced a small box which contained my principal

stock, displayed the most rare and beautiful pearls and gems which I

possessed, and stated the price of each. I also fixed the price of the

pearl which I bought from that stranger at two thousand dirhams. The

woman said: ‘I cannot tell whether they will approve of these or not.’

She sealed the box, took out her tablets and wrote something, which she

delivered with the box to her companion, and said to me: ‘I shall remain

here, while the lady of the house makes her choice. If you like, you may

send somebody with my friend, in order to learn where the house is.’ I

had a faithful servant whom I sent along with her companion, and the

woman herself sat down in my shop. Presently two men in the bazár began

to quarrel, and when they reached my door they drew their swords and

began to fight. A great crowd gathered quickly, and the men of the Amír

also came to fetch those who had witnessed the affair. They compelled the

shopkeepers to follow and dragged me also with them. Meanwhile the woman

remained sitting in my shop with the child in her arms, and said to me:

‘Do not be uneasy about your shop, for I will take care of it till you

return.’ I proceeded a few paces, till it occurred to me that the woman

might deceive me, so I said to the butcher whose shop was next to mine:

‘Take care of this woman.’ As he had no knowledge of my transaction with

her, he supposed that I wished him to take care of the shop only, and

said: ‘All right.’



“As some time had elapsed since my servant went with the woman and the

box of jewels and had not yet returned, and as the other woman was by

herself in my shop, I was full of anxiety and went with an oppressed

heart to the court of the Amír. When I arrived there all the witnesses

had been examined and discharged. I was taken into the presence of the

Amír to give my testimony, but being in a very distracted state of mind I

gave my evidence in a way which did not correspond with that of the other

witnesses. The Amír smiled and said: ‘This is the wretch who killed such

a man,’ and the people said: ‘So it is!’ The Amír continued: ‘This is the

reason why his evidence is contradicting that of all the others; such a

worthless fellow deserves to be severely punished.’ When I was led out

of the palace I gave a large sum to the officials to induce them to take

bail of respectable persons and set me at liberty.



“On returning to my shop, the woman was gone, and my servant was sitting

alone crying and in sore distress. I asked him what had become of the

jewels and the woman he accompanied; and he in his turn inquired what had

become of the woman he had left in the shop with me. I told him that I

had committed her to the care of the butcher, and demanded to know where

he had been and what he had done with the box of jewels. He replied:

‘You gave the box to the woman, and ordered me simply to follow her so

as to learn where the house is, and this I did. I went with her from the

bazár and passed through several streets until we reached the street of

the Forty Virgins; she stopped at the door of a house, before which a

number of respectable people were sitting, and bade me sit down till she

came out again. The woman went in, and I remained waiting for her till

near noon, but she did not make her appearance. When it was mid-day and

I heard the voice of the muezzin, and beheld crowds entering the house,

I supposed that somebody had died there and that the people were going

to condole with the relatives. After a while they all came out again.

At last I asked one of the people: “Does the woman who went in here not

intend to come out at all?” The man laughed and said: “Whose house do you

suppose this is? And what woman are you speaking about? Step forward,

there is none to prohibit you, and see what place this house is.” I

arose from my seat and entered the portico with fear and apprehension,

and proceeded till I reached the interior of a mosque where I saw people

engaged in prayer. On the opposite side of the mosque I saw an open

door through which people were also coming and going. Then I knew that

the woman must have passed through it. I went out by that door and saw

women like her walking about, but as there was nothing particular in her

dress by which I might have recognised her, and not knowing her name, I

wandered through the streets for some time and then hopelessly returned

to the shop.’[251]



“I was choked with grief at these tidings, and almost lost my senses. I

went to the butcher and asked him what had become of the woman whom I had

left to his care, and he answered: ‘When did you entrust a woman to me?

You only asked me to look after your shop. When you were gone I noticed a

woman sitting there with a child in her arms, and I asked her with whom

she had any business, to which she replied: “I want a sum of money from

the jeweller.” Presently she brought the child and said: “Let this child

remain here till I come back,” and went away, and there is the child in

your shop.’ I said: ‘Bring it out, that I may see it.’ The butcher did

so, and when I raised the veil from its face we discovered that it was a

plaster figure dressed up as an infant. I said to the butcher: ‘This is a

very strange child!’ He replied: ‘Leave off joking; go in and inquire for

the woman.’ I continued: ‘I entrusted the woman to your care, and I want

you to produce her. She remained in my shop as a pledge for more than

three thousand tománs’ worth of jewels.’ He replied: ‘You fool! Perhaps

I was your servant, that I should take care of the woman, instead of

your doing so yourself!’ I was in so great a state of excitement that I

took up his great knife which was lying near me and threw it at him; it

wounded him in the face. His friends and neighbours seized and carried me

before the Amír, who ordered them to kill me. But there were many that

said: ‘This man is crazy: of what use could it be to kill him? Let his

possessions be confiscated, and himself be expelled from the city, as a

warning to others.’



“All that I possessed was taken from me as a mulct for my crime, and

being driven out of the city, I went away poor and naked. When I reached

the desert I lost my road, and wandered about thirsty and hungry for

ten days, bitterly lamenting my misfortunes. Suddenly a man met me and

mounted me on a camel. Having carried me into the main road, he asked me

whether I knew him. I said: ‘Your voice seems to be that of a friend.’

He continued: ‘I am the man who sold you the pearl for twenty dirhams to

try your honesty, and I have it with me now’; and putting his hand into

his wallet he drew forth the same pearl and showed it to me, saying:

‘Know that I am King Akabil, and that several thousands of genii are

subject to me, and my occupation is to go about in the cities and bazárs

under various disguises, to discover whether people are honest in their

dealings. When I find one upright I always remain his friend and helper;

but when I see a man who is unjust and fraudulent, I endanger his life

and property. You ought to know that base actions are unrighteousness

and deceit towards your fellow beings. On account of your deceitfulness

and injustice, the granary of your immense property has in a very short

time been blown away by the wind of non-existence.’ I began to cry and

complain, but he said: ‘Remorse is now of no avail,’ and disappeared from

my sight. So I came to this country and am wandering about in a state

of helplessness and destitution, in bitter repentance and grief for my

former dishonesty and the loss of my property. Whatever I undertook,

nothing succeeded, and at last I became blind. Now begging has become my

trade; and the reason why I always chant the same distich is that neither

the high nor the low should quit the road of honesty and justice, lest

they be exiled, like myself, from the abode of peace and prosperity.”









THE KAZI OF GHAZNI AND THE MERCHANT’S WIFE.





During the reign of Sultan Mahmúd Sabaktaghin,[252] of Ghazní, a man was

travelling from Aderbaijan to Hindústán; and when he arrived in Ghazní,

he was much pleased with the climate and resolved to settle there. As he

had great experience in commerce, he went to the bazár, became a broker,

and was very successful in business. He intended to marry, and Fortune

being propitious to him, he entered into a matrimonial alliance with

a virtuous and handsome young woman. By degrees his business became

more and more flourishing, and, having accumulated much wealth, he was

numbered among the richest merchants. Wishing to extend his transactions

to Hindústán, he sent goods to that country; but as he had no connections

or intimate friends who might take charge of his wife till his return,

this thought troubled him greatly; and as it is the first duty of a

respectable man to be on his guard in this matter, and not to hazard his

reputation and honour, he determined not to start on his journey till

he had provided an asylum for his spouse. The Kází of the city being

noted for his piety, virtue, and honour, the merchant said to himself:

“I cannot do better than entrust the keeping of my wife to so godly and

honest a man, who enjoys the esteem of rich and poor; so she shall remain

in his house until I return from my journey.”



The merchant hastened to make his obeisance to the Kází, and said: “O

president of the judgment-seat of truth and piety, from whose highly

gifted and penetrating intellect the explanations of religious and

secular questions flow, and by whose essentially holy authority the

commendatory and prohibitory laws are corroborated—may your most

righteous opinion always remain the guide of those who seek to walk in

the straight path of piety! I, your humble servant, am an inhabitant of

this city, and it is my intention to undertake a journey to Hindústán. I

have a young wife, the leaves of whose modesty and virtue are bound up

in the splendid volume of her natural excellence; and as I have nobody

who might protect and take care of her, and lest she should fall under

the obloquy of false tongues, I venture to hope that she may find refuge

with your lordship.” The Kází placed the seal of acquiescence upon this

request, and said that he would take charge of her; and the merchant,

having furnished his wife with money to defray all the necessary expenses

for a year, delivered her to the Kází, and set out on his journey.



The lady passed all her time in the house of the Kází in prayer and

devotion; and nearly a whole year had elapsed, without the breeze of a

single profane glance having blown on the vernal abode of her face, and

without her having ever heard the bird of a voice in the foliage of her

ears, till one day the Kází unexpectedly made his appearance and looked

at her, when he perceived the Laylá-like beauty sitting within the black

mansion of her musky ringlets, and her sweet tenderness mounted upon the

face of attractiveness and melancholy, the Majnún of the Kází’s intellect

became troubled, and, Ferhád-like, he began to dig the Bistán of his

soul, which was melting and burning in the censer of distraction. He was

desirous of making an attack upon her virtue, but, being aware of her

pure nature and chastity, durst not attempt it. One day, however, when

his wife went to the public bath and had left the lady alone to take

care of the house, he was so completely dominated by his unlawful passion

that he threw skyward the turban of concupiscence and exclaimed:



    “The desired game for which I looked in the skies

    Has now on earth fallen into the net of my good fortune.”



He locked the door, and commenced his stratagem by complimenting her

modesty, and continued to address her in the following strain: “Virtuous

lady, the reputation of my honesty and piety has spread through the

world and penetrated all corners. Even the charms of the húrís of

Paradise could not seduce my righteous disposition from the road of

firm determination, or impel me to transgress the laws of purity; then

why do you avoid me so much? If the absence of intelligence and of the

knowledge of the true state of things keep your face veiled with the

curtain of bashfulness, my obedience to the laws of God and my fear of

eternal punishment at the day of resurrection prohibit me from allowing

the fire of sensuality to be kindled within me. I would not disturb your

peace, even with a single glance of my eye. Be of good cheer, therefore,

and throw aside the veil of apprehension from your face, for there is

no danger of sinning; and although it is against the law of God and the

Prophet to exact services from guests, yet as you belong to the house and

I am dependent on your kindness, I would request you to procure me some

food, for I am hungry.”



Drawing the prohibitory veil of bashfulness over her face, the lady

waited upon the Kází with all due modesty, and having placed food before

him she retired into a corner. Now the Kází had provided himself with a

drug which deprives of all sense any one who partakes of it, and he said

to the lady: “You know that three kinds of persons will be rejected from

the mercy of God on the day of the resurrection and subjected to endless

tortures: he who eats alone, he who sleeps alone, and he who travels

alone; and till now it has never happened to me that I did any of these

three things. As I am now eating alone, and one who does this has Satan

for his companion, and his faith is endangered, why should you not, in

order to free me from the snares of the Devil, defile your hands by

partaking of this meal?” He ceased not thus to press the lady till she

at length sat down near the table and helped herself to some food, into

which the Kází unobserved threw some of the drug. After she had eaten a

few morsels she felt faint, and on attempting to rise from the table her

feet refused to bear her and she fell senseless on the floor.



The Kází quickly gathered up the articles that were on the table and

purposed worse things, when he heard noises outside, which greatly

disturbed him, and he was perplexed where to conceal the unconscious

lady, so that nobody might discover the matter. He thought of the vault

where he kept his money and valuables, which was known only to himself,

and into it he thrust the lady, and then went out and found that his

family had returned from the bath.



The Kází asked his family: “Why did you leave the house empty?” They

answered: “We left the wife of the merchant to take care of the place.”

Quoth the Kází: “It is two hours since I came home, and I have seen no

one; why do you trust a stranger? She may have taken away something.”

They were all astonished, protested that she was not such a woman, and

wondered what had become of her. While this talk was going on, the

merchant, having just returned from his journey to Hindústán, came to

the house of the Kází to inquire for his wife. The Kází said: “It is

some time since your wife left my house, without giving notice or asking

permission.” But the merchant replied: “O Kází, this is not a time for

jesting; give me back my wife.” The Kází swore that he was in earnest.

But the merchant said: “I am too well acquainted with the nature and

disposition of my wife to believe her capable of such conduct. There must

be something more in this affair than appears.” At this the Kází affected

to be wroth, and said: “It is I who ought to be offended, you foolish

man. Why do you talk nonsense and needlessly insult us? Go and look for

your wife!”



As the merchant was devotedly attached to his wife, and the smoke of

distress was beginning to ascend from the oven of his brain, he tore the

collar of patience and hastened to make his complaint to the sultan,

and, prostrating himself upon the carpet of supplication, he recited

these verses:



    “O exalted and happy monarch,

    May felicity be the servant of your palace!

    The Kází of the city has done me injustice

    Greater than the blast of the tornado of the west.

    If it be permitted, I will explain

    The injustice of that mean-spirited wretch.”



The sultan replied: “Set forth your complaint, that I may become

acquainted with it.” Then the merchant spoke as follows: “I am a native

of Aderbaijan, and the fame of the justice and protection which the

poor obtain at the hands of your majesty induced me to settle in this

country, and I have dwelt for some years under the shadow of the sultan’s

protection. I had a beautiful and modest wife, and, purposing to travel

to Hindústán, I committed her a year ago to the charge of the Kází. Now

I have returned from my journey, the Kází, led away by covetousness,

refuses to give up to me my wife.” The sultan ordered the Kází to be

brought before him. When he appeared, the sultan asked him what he had

to say regarding the complaint which the merchant made against him.

Said the Kází: “May the torch of your majesty’s welfare be luminous and

the castle of opposition ruinous! This man entrusted his wife to me,

and it is nearly three months since she quitted my house without giving

notice, and up to this time she has not come back, and we have failed to

discover any trace of her.” To this the merchant responded: “Such conduct

is inconsistent with the character of my wife, and I do not believe it.”

The sultan asked: “Where are the witnesses?” The Kází said that several

neighbours and householders were acquainted with the fact, and wrote down

the names of a number of rascals whom he had bribed to give evidence

in his favour. At a sign from the sultan to the chamberlain they were

brought in and confirmed the assertion of the Kází, upon which the sultan

said to the merchant: “As the Kází has established his statement by

witnesses, your complaint falls to the ground,” and the merchant retired

disappointed.



Now the sultan was in the habit of walking about the bazárs and streets

of the city occasionally in disguise, mixing among the people, in order

to discover what they thought of him. That night he left his palace

according to his wont, and as he walked about he chanced to pass near

the door of a shop where a party of boys were playing at the game of

“The King and his Vazír.” One of the boys was made king, and said to

the others: “As I am king, you are all under my authority, and you must

not seek to evade my commands.” Another boy said: “If you give unjust

decisions like Sultan Mahmúd, we shall soon depose you.” The boy-king

asked: “What injustice has Sultan Mahmúd done?” The other boy answered:

“To-day the affair of the merchant came before the sultan. This merchant

had confided his wife to the keeping of the Kází, and he hid her in his

own house. The sultan called for witnesses, and the Kází gained the case

by producing in court witnesses whom he had previously bribed. It is a

great pity that people should have the administration of justice in their

hands who are unable to distinguish between right and wrong. Had I been

in the place of the sultan I should very soon have discovered the truth

or falsehood of the Kází’s witnesses.”



When the sultan had heard the conversation of these boys he sighed, and

returned to his palace in great agitation of mind; and next morning

as soon as it was daylight he sent a servant to fetch the boy who had

criticised his judgment of the merchant’s case. The boy was brought,

and the sultan received him in a very friendly manner, saying: “This

day you shall be my lieutenant from morning till evening, and I intend

to allow you to sit in judgment and to act entirely according to your

own will.” Then the sultan whispered to the chamberlain to invite the

merchant to repeat his complaint against the Kází, and the merchant,

having been brought into court, did so. The Kází and his witnesses were

next summoned, and when the Kází was about to seat himself the boy said:

“Ho, Master Kází, the leading-strings of justice and the power of tying

and untying knotty points of law have been long in your hands—how then do

you seem to be so ignorant of legal customs? You have been brought into

this court as a party in a law suit, and not as an assessor. It is the

rule that you should stand below, on an equality with your accuser, till

the court breaks up, and then you should obey whatever its decision may

be.” Then the Kází went and stood near the merchant, and again asserted

that the woman had left his house three months ago. The boy asked: “Have

you any witnesses?” The Kází pointed to his followers, saying: “These

are the witnesses.” The boy called one of them to him, and asked him in

a subdued voice whether he had seen the woman. He said: “Yes.” Then he

asked what signs there were on her person, stature, or face. The man

became embarrassed and said: “She had a mole on her forehead; one of

her teeth is wanting; she is of fresh complexion; tall and slender.”

The boy asked: “What hour of the day was it when she went away from the

Kází’s house?” The man replied: “Morning.” “Remain in this place,” said

the boy. Then he called another witness, who thus described the woman:

“She is of low stature and is lean; her cheeks are white and red; she

has a mole near her mouth; she left the house in the afternoon.” Having

placed this man in another corner, the boy called for a third witness,

whose evidence contradicted both the others; and gradually he examined

them all and found they disagreed from each other in everything. The

sultan was sitting by the side of the boy and heard all; and when the

hearing of the witnesses was ended the boy said: “You God-forgetting

wretches, why do you give false evidence? Let the instruments of torture

be brought that we may find out the truth.” As soon as they heard the

word torture they all offered to say the truth, and confessed themselves

to be a set of poor fellows whom the Kází had bribed with a sum of money

and instructed what to say, and that they knew nothing whatever about the

woman. Then the boy called the Kází, and asked him what he had to say in

this business. The Kází commenced to tremble and said: “The truth is as I

have stated.” The boy said: “Our Kází is a bold man, and his haughtiness

hinders him from confessing the truth: the instruments of torture ought

to be employed.” When the Kází heard this, the fear of torture greatly

distressed him, and he confessed the truth. On this the boy kissed the

floor of good manners with the lips of obedience and said: “The rest of

this affair is to be settled by the sultan.” The sultan was much pleased

with the acuteness and intelligence of the boy, and ordered the Kází to

be beheaded and all his property to be given to the merchant’s wife. The

boy was treated kindly and educated, until by degrees he won the entire

confidence of the sultan and became one of his greatest favourites.









THE INDEPENDENT MAN AND HIS TRAVELLING COMPANIONS.





Historians relate that there were two men of the inhabitants of Kabúl

sitting in the corner of poverty, fettered with the chains of hardships

and difficulties. The thunderstorms and disturbance of the whirlpools of

the sphere’s revolution had overturned the boat of their possessions, and

it had become the prey of the whale of destruction. They were screwed in

the press of poverty and destitution, like flower-beds from which the

oil is to be squeezed out, and the pain and suffering of distress caused

them to change colour at each moment like a chameleon till each day was

changed into evening. Although they hastened with the foot of labour and

diligence in the performance of their occupations, they could never reach

the desired mansion of their object on account of their unpropitious

fortune and their constant mishaps. The blackness of their morning

tinctured the night even of the poor with the reflection of grief, and

the mirror of their evening imparted new sorrow to orphans.



One day they said to each other: “In this country the gates of peace are

shut upon us, and it is a maxim of the wise that if people meet with

difficulties in their own country they ought to remove to another. As the

liberal Sultan Mahmúd is now reigning, we must go to Ghazní and do our

best to see him, when perhaps the aroma of his generosity will perfume

the nostrils of our intention, and our dilapidated circumstances will be

altered.” So they set out for Ghazní, and on the road they were joined by

a man, the rose-bush of whose disposition was always kept fresh by the

dew of piety, and who passed his life in contentment, like one of the

blest. He asked them: “My brothers, the shoe of what desire have you put

on the foot of your intention? And towards the castle of what pretension

have you turned the face of your inclination?” They answered: “Since the

lamp of each of us has been extinguished by the wind of misfortune, and

the thorn of hardships has pierced the feet of our hearts, and as we

could not find the plaster in Kabúl by which the wound of our untoward

condition might be healed; and hearing that the gates of the generosity

and liberality of Sultan Mahmúd the Ghaznivide have been opened to the

rich and poor, and that the banquet of his unbounded graciousness is

always spread for the relief of the poor, we hope to re-light the lamp

of our circumstances at the blaze of his regard.” Those two men of Kabúl

also asked the young man about his intention, and he replied: “Having

no possessions in my own country, and the day of my well-being having

reached the evening, I am in pursuit of a lawful means of support, but

I do not expect aught from Sultan Mahmúd or persons like him. I desire

grace and favour of a Sultan, the door of the treasury of whose gifts is

besieged by a hundred thousand men as indigent as Sultan Mahmúd, who are

contemplating with the eye of hope the storehouse of his infinite grace

and bounty.” In short, the three travellers pursued their journey in

company till they arrived in Ghazní, where they took up their lodging in

a ruined building.



One night all three of them were sitting together in the ruin, conversing

on various subjects. It happened that Sultan Mahmúd, accompanied by two

of his intimates, had left the palace to walk about in the moonlight.

They passed through several streets and lanes till they came near the

ruin, and, attracted by the voices, they discovered the travellers and

asked them who they were. The two men of Kabúl replied: “We are benumbed

by the crapula of the wine of helplessness and distress; we are veiled

by the curtain of misery; we are riding the horse of poverty, and are

roaming through the ups and downs of this world; and now our fate has

guided us to this place, and we shall see how our affairs terminate.” The

sultan asked: “What are your wishes?” They answered: “If we tell them,

they will never be accomplished; so there is no use in relating them.”

Quoth the sultan: “Since the inhabitants of this world are bound to aid

each other, it is your duty to inform me of your desires, in order that

the complicated knot of that affair may be disentangled by the help of

some one’s nail.” One of them replied: “I was one of the rich and the

prosperous, and possessed great wealth. This world, which is inconstant

like the hues of the chameleon, has ceased to be propitious to me; and

the shame of poverty and the disgrace of my family have induced me to

quit my country. If I were possessed of ten thousand dínars, I should

consider the sum as a capital which might enable me to raise my head

again and return to my country.” The other said: “I had a wife sitting

veiled in the haram of compliance: the loveliness of the sun of her

features surpassed the rose in beauty, and the moon was lessened in

splendour by the rays of her cheeks. I loved her much, and could not live

one moment without her. She died, and the fire of grief has burnt my

liver, and thrown me into the most unhappy condition. Should his highness

the sultan present me with a member of his haram, so that by the sun

of her presence the mansion of my joy and happiness might become again

illumined, I would gladly return to my country.” The third companion

remained silent, and the sultan turning to him asked: “Do you not wish

for anything?” He answered: “I have to do with God. I need neither a

wife nor gold. I turn my face towards the vivifying treasury of God’s

mercy, by whom desires are granted, who knows the innermost recesses of

our hearts, and what every one deserves: my wishes are all regulated by

his good pleasure. If you are in the enjoyment of God’s favour and are

able from him to obtain your desires, pray to him for my sake that he may

grant me the grace that I should not once draw my breath contrary to his

goodwill.” The sultan said nothing, but arose and departed.



When the chamberlain of Destiny had opened the gates of life upon the

inhabited earth, and the world-illuming king, the sun, had seated

himself in the azure tent of the upper sky, the sultan ordered the three

strangers that were in the ruin to be brought into his presence. When

they perceived the sultan, they knew him to be the same man who had been

with them the preceding night, and they were under the apprehension that

he would be angry with them. The sultan called them forward, and inquired

of each of them his wants, and the two men of Kabúl repeated what they

had said on the previous evening. When the third stranger’s turn came he

said:



    “Bitter indeed to our lips is the colocynth of mendicancy;

    We have tasted the sweets of liberality from the hands of the

      noble-minded.



O thou illuminated speculum of potentates, as long as the storehouse of

the works of God is full of blessings, may the treasury of thy desires

also remain plentifully provided with the exhilarating gold, silver, and

jewels of prosperity! Although people in general may be rejoicing with

the delicacies of the table of thy bounty, and thyself mayest thereby

taste the sweets of good deeds, still those that sit in the tent of

exquisite feelings have so much refreshed their palates with the honey

of contentment that they would by no means defile their lips with a

single mouthful which belongs to others.



    The palate of the contented has never been sweetened by the liberal;

    The delights of independence are far above the delights which

      liberality can bestow.[253]



My hopes and expectations are dependent on the threshold of the Eternal

King: he will grant to me all that he thinks fit, without my fastening

myself on the skirts of petition to any one else, or jeopardising the

position of a retiring and modest individual.”



The sultan tried much, but could not induce the young man to act contrary

to his avowed principles, and to open his lips to beg for some favour.

He gave orders that the man who was in want of a wife should be provided

with one of his own damsels, and presented the man who wanted money with

two purses of gold. Then he said: “Now, all three of you, return to your

own countries.” In obedience to this order they set out together on their

journey to Kabúl. After proceeding about two parasangs,[254] the man who

obtained the gold felt tired by carrying it, so he handed it to his

empty-handed companion, requesting him to carry it for a short time till

he had rested himself.



Now the chroniclers relate that when the three men left the presence of

the sultan, he turned to his courtiers and said: “That independent man

has put me greatly to shame. He left me as if I were in the position of

a poor man; and although I tried much he would not accept of anything.”

One of the courtiers, who was labouring under the asthma of covetousness,

and as the covetous are the natural enemies of the contented, thus

gave expression to his innate feelings: “The sultans and kings of this

world are the collectors of the treasury of God; and, according to the

requirements of the order of mundane affairs, he grants drafts or letters

of credit to the poor for the alleviation of their wants, which drafts

the rich are bound to accept and honour. Whoever refuses to apply to

kings for help scorns their favour, and in this manner acts contrary to

the will of God, on account of his pride and independence. Such a man is

certainly deserving of death, and ought to be so punished.” The sultan

became excited, and ordered one of his chamberlains to proceed on the

same road which the three men had taken, and, leaving undisturbed the man

who had the gold and him who had the girl, to kill the third person who

was empty-handed, and bring his head. It so happened, however, that when

the messenger of the sultan overtook them, the independent man carried

the gold upon his back, and the possessor of the gold was empty-handed.

The chamberlain made no inquiry, but cut off the head of the proprietor

of the gold and returned with it to the sultan. When the sultan had

looked well at the head he exclaimed: “You are a thoughtless fellow, and

have made a mistake.” He despatched forthwith another chamberlain, and

enjoined him to decapitate that man who was without any burden whatever.

But now it fortuned that the possessor of the girl had entrusted her

for a time to the independent man, and fallen a little behind. When

the messenger came up, he perceived the owner of the girl following

empty-handed in the wake of the independent man, and immediately cut off

his head, and on presenting it to his master, the sultan, after looking

at it, cried in astonishment: “This man has also been killed by mistake!”



The sultan reflected for a while, and when he became calm, perceived that

the grace of God had been a bulwark of protection to that independent

man, which had prevented him from coming to any harm. He summoned another

attendant, and commanded him to pursue the same road, and bring into his

presence the man who possessed both the gold and the girl, which he did

accordingly. As soon as the sultan beheld the man, he smiled, and said:

“What has become of your companions?” He answered: “May the life of the

sultan be everlasting, and may the compliant hand of the sweetheart

Prosperity be always round his neck! He who presented them with the gold

and the maid has in return taken their lives; and indeed whoever prefers

the creature to the Creator turns away his face from the threshold of

real felicity, has no refuge whither he might flee, will be trampled

under the feet of distressing events, and will not pluck a single flower

from the rose-garden of his desires.



    Whoever averts his face from his portals

    Will meet with no regard, to whatever door he turns.”



These observations of the man aroused the sultan from the sleep of

indolence, and made him aware that this person had tasted the sweets of

benefits from the spread-table of the love and knowledge of God; and he

said to him: “Thou ornament of the society of obedience to the laws of

God! I am very anxious to bestow something upon you, that I may become

infinitely your debtor. I adjure you, by God, to ask something of me.”

That happy man thus answered: “I have two wishes. The first is, that

you send a very considerable sum of money to Kabúl, to recompense the

heirs of the two men who have been slain without any guilt of their own;

and the second is, that I may be allowed to enjoy the lease of a small

dwelling, in which I may carry on the trade of a weaver, and thus earn

an honest livelihood.” The sultan stroked the face of agreement with the

finger of beneficence, and said: “You flower-gatherer in the gardens of

beneficence! I have also three requests to make of you, with which I

trust your kindness will comply. The first is, that, should you entertain

any ill-feeling towards me, I beg you to forget it; the second is, that

you pray to God that he may blot out my sins from the book of my actions

with reference to those two innocent men; and the third is, that you come

to me every Friday evening, so that I may profit by my intercourse with

you.” The man agreed to all this, and applied himself diligently to his

business, till his singleness of purpose placed him in possession of the

key to prosperity and wealth; and the gates of well-being having become

open in correspondence with his expectation, he was enabled to advance

money to the royal treasury whenever it was required, to redeem many

people from the penalty of death, and to do much good to worthy and poor

people.









THE KING WHO LEARNED A TRADE.





There was, in days long past and in the country of Aderbaijan, a king

who administered justice and cherished wisdom; the tiller of his

equity-loving nature kept the garden of his kingdom always free of the

chaff and rubbish of oppression, and preserved, with the light of the

torch of high-mindedness and gifts, the surface of the breasts of those

who hoped and solicited from the darkness of hardship and destitution.

By means of his discernment he became acquainted with the worth and

station due to men of skill, and always honoured the high polish of the

speculum of accomplishments and perfections with the throne of dignity

and the place of respect. One day, while he was seated in the palace of

pomp and splendour, dispensing justice and retribution, and engaged in

diving into the depths of the circumstances of the people, two men took

hold of the collar of complaint before him, one of whom had no trade,

while the other was skilful and accomplished; and, although the former

brought forward arguments and evidence in support of his claim, and it

became clear that he was in the right, the king purposely turned the

scales in favour of the clever man, and ordered him that was without a

trade to be punished.



The king had a vazír equal to Plato in science, who always drew upon the

book of circumstances with the pen of propriety of opinion and prudence

of arrangement. Wondering at the decision of the king, he rose from his

place and said: “O thou leader of the caravan of prosperity of realms,

by the strokes of whose world-conquering scimitar the peace of the

breasts of opponents is destroyed, and from the fruits of whose convoy

of success the countries of the hearts of the amicable are made populous

and flourishing! I have a request to make: first, that the skyward-flying

humaí of your gracious disposition may pervade the atmosphere of

compliance with my solicitation.” The king said: “Explain.” And the

vazír continued: “I pray that the life of this innocent youth, whose

guiltlessness must be visible upon the mirror of your majesty’s mind,

may be spared for my sake; and that it might be disclosed to me why your

majesty pardoned the guilty one and condemned the innocent.” The king

replied: “I have absolved him whom you called guilty because I have

arrived at the certainty that he is unblameable and has the right on his

side. But I do not consider this the proper time to explain the matter,

which, however, will be done as soon as we are alone.”



When the tree of the assembly had shed the leaves and fruits of its

multitude and the lamp of the apartment of privacy was trimmed and made

bright, the king spake thus to his vazír:



“Thou quintessence of acuteness, something happened to me once which

plunged me into the sea of astonishment. From that time I made a vow to

show favour to a man who has a profession, even should he be blameworthy

otherwise, and to punish him who has no trade or occupation, even though

he should be my own son; so that the high and the low, seeing this,

should be induced to have their children taught trades in due conformity

with their circumstances.



“Know, then, that when my father was yet walking in the garden of life,

and was sitting upon the throne of happiness and government, on a

certain day those who were present at the audience were discussing the

advantages of trades and accomplishments; and, although I had made myself

acquainted with several sciences and accomplishments befitting a royal

prince, I was desirous of learning some useful craft. I therefore caused

each one of the tradesmen of the city to exhibit his skill before me,

in order that I might apply myself to the craft which I should prefer.

After having seen them all, none pleased me so much as mat-making,

because the master of that art had introduced into the specimen which he

wrought all sorts of pretty figures. The instructor was engaged, and I

was taught until I became skilful in this business. One day I happened to

entertain a desire to make a pleasure excursion on the sea, and, having

taken leave of the king, embarked in a boat with a number of companions.

We amused ourselves for two days with fishing, but, as all mortals are

subject to the vicissitudes of Fortune, on the third day a dreadful storm

arose, the sea was lashed into furious waves, our boat went to pieces,

and my attendants became food for the palate of the whale of destiny. I

floated about on a broken plank with two of my associates for several

days, drifting like chaff in the ebb and flow of the abyss, and having

our throats choked every moment by the gripe of mortal fear. We humbled

ourselves at the footstool of the Answerer of prayer, because no one ever

besought him in vain; and by his favour the wind drove the broken plank

towards the shore, and all three of us, having landed in safety, made

our way to an oasis in which were various fruits and aromatic plants,

numerous beyond conception. We travelled through this oasis, resting

during the night on trees, for fear of wild beasts, and at length reached

the city of Baghdád. I possessed several rings of great value, and went

to the bazár, accompanied by my friends, in order to procure food. Having

sold a ring, we entered the shop of a cook, who displayed a great variety

of dishes, and in whose service a handsome boy was busying himself. We

handed the master of the shop a few dirhams desiring him to furnish us

with some food. He cast a glance at us and said: ‘Young men, nobility

and greatness shine from your foreheads. In this city it is considered

disgraceful that youths like yourselves should be eating their food in

the bazár. There is a handsome room in the neighbourhood to which persons

like you are accustomed to resort: do me the favour to proceed thither,

and I will supply something worthy of you.’ He sent his boy with us, and

we soon reached the house, which was very neat and tastefully ornamented.

And we were beginning to amuse ourselves by examining the beautiful

paintings upon the walls, when the boy said: ‘I am going to fetch your

food.’ As soon as he was gone the floor of the house began to move as

if a great earthquake had occurred, and we were all precipitated into a

deep well, which was dark like the graves of infidels[255] and black as

their hearts.



“Now that cook was a Jew, and an enemy of the Faith; and it was his

practice to decoy Muslims into this house, and, having thus entrapped

them and put them to death, to roast their flesh and sell it to other

Muslims.[256] Our necks were pledged in this affair, and we were in

expectation of what turn it would take when the same youth descended

into the well, sword in hand, with the intention of murdering us,

upon which we said to him: ‘Friend, what advantage will you derive by

killing us unhappy wretches? If gain be your object, we know the trade

of mat-making, which is very profitable in this city. Bring hither the

tools and materials necessary for that business, and we will make a mat

every day.’ The youth hastened to inform his master of our proposal,

and we were furnished with the required materials, and began at once

to make mats, receiving each day a loaf of barley bread. After being

in this condition for some time, a plan occurred to me through which

our release might be achieved. I finished a mat with all possible care,

and worked into the borders of it an account of my circumstances in the

Arabic language. This was during the reign of Harún er-Rashíd, and I

thought that if this mat were offered to the khalíf it might be the means

of our release. The greediness of the Jew having become an obstacle to

his circumspection and regard of consequences, he carried the mat to the

palace of the khalíf, who highly approved of it; but after examining it

more minutely he discovered the meaning of the characters in the borders,

and demanded of the Jew whose work it was and where he had got it. He

answered: ‘I have a friend in Basra who sent it to me.’ The khalíf said:

‘Wait a little, that I may present thee with a reward worthy of it.’ Then

calling a servant to him he whispered something in his ear, upon which he

came and delivered us from the well and conducted us into the presence of

Harún. When the Jew saw us he began to tremble, and the khalíf demanded

of him: ‘Who are these men?’ The Jew struck with his hand the ring of

the door of negation, and replied: ‘I do not know.’ Then the instruments

of torture were ordered to be brought, and when the Jew heard this he

confessed everything. The khalíf commanded the Jew to be hung upon the

tree of punishment, and the poison of perdition to be poured into the

throat of his existence.



“My plan was highly approved of, and I was sent to the bath and presented

with rich clothes. The khalíf then asked me about my adventures, which I

related to him from beginning to end. As the long service of my father

had laid the khalíf under many obligations to him, and the khalíf knowing

well that I was as the apple of my father’s eye, he was the more kind

to me, and said: ‘Be of good cheer. Please God, we will help you to

return to your own country.’ After entertaining me for several days, he

presented me with ten strings of camels and all sorts of things which are

necessary or useful to grandees, and dismissed me, with a letter to my

father and a guard of fifty men. When I arrived in this city the corpse

of my father was just being carried to the cemetery. Having mourned for

the death of my father, I established myself firmly upon the throne

of dominion. Although my peace was for some time in jeopardy from the

misfortunes I had endured, yet it was by the help of a trade that I

was saved. I have perfect confidence in skilful men, and have decided

always to honour men who have a profession and despise those that have

none.”[257]









THE HIDDEN TREASURE.





There dwelt in Damascus a man of the name of Zayn al-Arab, with the honey

of whose life the poison of hardship was always mixed. Day and night he

hastened like the breeze from north to south in the world of exertion,

and he was burning brightly like straw, from his endeavours, in the oven

of acquisition, in order to gain a loaf of bread and to feed his family.

In course of time, however, he succeeded in accumulating a considerable

sum of money, but as he had tasted the bitterness and poison of

destitution, and had for a very long time borne the heavy load of poverty

upon his back, and fearing to lose his property by the chameleon-like

changes of Fortune, one night he carried his money out of the city and

buried it under a tree. After some time had passed he began to miss the

presence of his treasure and betook himself to the tree, in order that

he might refresh his eyes with the sight of it. But when he had dug the

ground at the foot of the tree he discovered that his soul-exhilarating

deposit was refreshing the palate of some one else. The morning of his

prosperity was suddenly changed into the evening of bitterness and of

disappointment. He was perplexed as to what friend to confide his secret,

and to what remedy to fly for the recovery of his treasure. The lancet of

grief had pierced the liver of his peace; and the huntsman of distress

had tied up the wings and feet of the bird of his serenity.



One day he went on some business to a learned and wise man of the city,

with whom he was on a footing of intimacy, who said to him: “I have for

some time past observed the glade of your circumstances destroyed by

the burning coals of restlessness, and a sad change in your health, the

cause of which I do not know, nor do I know what thorn of misfortune has

pierced the foot of your heart, nor what dawn of hardship has risen in

the east of your mind.” Zayn al-Arab wept tears of sadness and replied:

“O thou standard coin from the mint of love! the treachery of Fortune has

brought a strange accident upon me, and the bow of Destiny has let fly

an unpropitious arrow upon my feeble target. I have a heavy heart and a

great sorrow. Were I to reveal it to you perhaps it would be of no use,

and might also plunge you into grief.” The learned man said: “Since the

hearts of intimate friends are like looking-glasses, and are receiving

the figures of mutual secrets, it is at all times necessary that they

should communicate to each other any difficulties which they may fall

into, in order that they may be overcome by taking together steps which

prudence should dictate.” Zayn al-Arab answered: “Dear friend, I had some

gold, and fearing lest it should be stolen, I carried it to such a place

and buried it under a tree; and when I next visited the spot I found

the garment of my beloved Joseph sprinkled with the blood of the wolf of

deception.” The learned man rejoined: “This is a serious mischance, and

it will be difficult to get on the track of your gold. Perhaps you were

seen by some person when you concealed it: he who has taken it away will

surely have to account for it in the next world, for God is omniscient.

Give me ten days for consideration of this matter, and it may be that

something will occur to me when I have examined the book of expedients

and stratagems.”



That knowing man sat down for the space of ten days in the school of

meditation; but after turning over the leaves of the volume of his mind

from the preface to the epilogue he could devise no plan. On the tenth

day they met in the street, and he said to Zayn al-Arab: “Although the

diver of my mind has plunged and searched most diligently into this deep

sea, he has been unable to take hold of the precious pearl of a wise

plan of operation. May God recompense you from the stores of his hidden

treasury!” They were conversing in this way when a lunatic met them and

asked: “Well, my boys, what is all your secret-mongering about?” The

learned man said to Zayn al-Arab: “Come, let us relate our case to this

crazy fellow, and see whether some flower will bloom in his mind.” Zayn

al-Arab replied: “Dear friend, when you with all your knowledge have

failed to devise aught during ten days’ cogitation, how can we expect to

obtain any information from this unfortunate, who does not know whether

it is day or night?” Quoth the learned man: “There is no telling what

he might say to us; but you are aware that the most foolish as well as

the wisest have ideas, and a remark, uttered perhaps at random, often

furnishes a clue by which the desired end is attained.” Meanwhile a

little boy had approached, and seeing the crazy fellow stopped to observe

his antics.



The two friends explained their case to the lunatic, who, after being

apparently immersed in thought for some time, remarked: “He who took the

root of that tree for a medicine also took the gold,” and then turning

his back to them went his way. They consulted with each other as to the

meaning of the crazy man’s observation, when the little boy asked what

kind of a tree it was. Zayn al-Arab replied that it was a jujube-tree.

Then said the boy: “This is a simple affair. You ought to inquire of

all the doctors in the city for whom a medicine compounded of the roots

of that tree has been prescribed.” The learned man greatly approved

of the boy’s acuteness and also of the crazy man’s lucky thought; and

being very well acquainted with all the physicians of the city, he made

his inquiries till he was informed by one of them that about twenty

days before he had prescribed for a merchant named Khoja Samander, who

suffered from asthma, and that one of the remedies was the root of that

jujube-tree. The learned man soon discovered the merchant’s house, found

him enjoying perfect health, and thus addressed him: “Ah, Khoja, all

the goods of this world ought to be given up to purchase health. By the

blessing of God, you have recovered your health, and you ought to restore

what you found at the foot of the jujube-tree, because the owner of it

is a worthy man, and it was his only possession.” The honest merchant

replied: “It is true, I have found it, and it is with me. If you will

tell me the amount of the gold I shall deliver it into your hands;” and

when Zayn al-Arab stated the exact sum he obtained his lost money.









THE DEAF MAN AND HIS SICK FRIEND.





A deaf man had a friend, the garden of whose health became withered by

the autumnal breeze of sickness, and by it he was laid prostrate on the

bed of infirmity, and once went on a visit of condolence to him. On the

road he said to himself: “When I meet the sick man I shall ask him how he

is. And he will certainly reply: ‘I feel a little better.’ Then I will

say: ‘God be praised!’ After that I will inquire who his physician is,

and he will give me the name of the doctor. Then I will say: ‘He is very

skilful, and he will soon free you from your disease.’ After that I will

ask what food and medicine he takes. He will tell me, and then I will

say: ‘Both of them are very appropriate for your distemper;’ and having

recited the _Fátiha_,[258] I shall depart.”



He exercised himself in these questions and answers till he reached the

house of his sick friend, who happened at the time to labour under great

nausea and depression of spirits. The deaf man asked him: “How do you

feel, my friend?” Said the sick man, in peevish tones: “Do not ask me—I

am ready to give up the ghost.” The deaf man smiled and said: “God be

praised! My prayer has been heard.” After that he asked: “Who is your

physician, my friend?” Quoth the sick man: “The angel of death.” This

puzzled the deaf man a little, but he answered: “That is well. I also

had him in view, because he is so skilful, and cures every patient he

treats.” Then he asked what his food and medicine were. The sick man

replied: “Pain and distress.” Said the deaf man: “May they redound to

your welfare; both are very proper for your disease.” Then he began to

recite the _Fátiha_, and the sick man said: “May God forgive you,” and

the deaf man took his leave.









THE GARDENER AND THE LITTLE BIRD.





It is related that a rich man in the city of Balkh possessed a garden

pleasant to behold as the roses on the cheeks of fairies, adorned with

various fragrant plants, blossoming flowers, and fruit-bearing trees. In

that garden a little bird took up its abode and amused itself by casting

the fruits, whether they were ripe or not, on the ground. Whenever the

gardener entered and beheld the damage thus occasioned, the bottom of

his heart was stung with the thorn of grief, and the blooming verdure of

the spring of his joy became withered by the cold blasts of the autumn

of that event. Though he rubbed the hands of regret much on each other,

he could not remedy the evil until he had spread a net in the haunts of

the bird, which was soon made a prisoner. When the gardener discovered

his good fortune he joyfully leaped from his ambush, caught hold of the

little bird, intending to despatch it to the regions of non-existence. In

its extremity the feathered captive thus spoke to the gardener: “Ornament

of the world of intelligence! may the paradise of your good wishes always

be the recipient of various divine favours! Consider that if you destroy

me, your loss cannot be repaired, and that he who dies is saved from

all the troubles of this world. But as I am to be killed for acts which

you deem improper, the love of life impels me to make a statement, if

you will permit me, after which you may do as you choose; but remember

that patience is a virtue of the high-minded, and hastiness a failing of

foolish men.”[259] The gardener, whose wrath had somewhat abated during

the address of the little bird, replied: “Before the whirlwind of death

blows in the field of your life, you are at liberty to say what you

desire to say.”



The little bird then said: “Wise gardener, be aware that in the west

there is an oasis which my tribe inhabits, but I left my relatives and

came to this spot. The pleasantness of this garden attracted me, and

for some time I reposed myself on the branch of a tree. A nightingale

and a lapwing were sitting together on the top of a date-tree, and a

locust was flying towards them which both of them wished to catch. The

nightingale was fortunate enough to seize it, but the lapwing snatched

it from its captor’s beak. Hereon the nightingale said: ‘O lapwing, are

you not ashamed to possess yourself of my prey? If you are able, why do

you not catch your own game?’ The lapwing replied: ‘Silence! To get the

prey is no honour, but it is so to deprive the hunter of his prey.’ Said

the nightingale: ‘This may be true; so I give it up. But, lapwing, I

have heard the other birds speak a great deal about you, and now that we

have met, and as your species has in the service of the Lord Sulayman

(salutation to our Prophet and to him!) enjoyed greater proximity to him

than has been the lot of any other kind of birds, I wish to know what

gifts or rewards you have obtained from him for the account which you

furnished him of the city of Sabá and your help in other matters.’[260]

The lapwing replied: ‘King Sulayman bestowed on our species three gifts:

(1) Whenever the earth is being dug up for water, we are able to tell

at what depth it may be found; (2) our heads have been adorned with

the crest of nobility; and (3) we are acquainted with the qualities of

fruits, and know that this year the garden in which we are at present

has been subjected to a visitation of God, so that whosoever should eat

of any of its fruits must immediately die.’ Then the lapwing asked: ‘Has

your species been favoured with any other gifts?’ And the nightingale

answered: ‘We have also been granted three favours: (1) a very melodious

voice, which is pleasing to all hearers; (2) we possess the property of

being awake during the night, which we enjoy in common with ascetics and

pious men; and (3) we have been invested with the gaudy robes of love,

and roses have been assigned for our spouses, whose society we enjoy

without let or hindrance, and in the aspect of whose heart-ravishing

cheeks we perpetually delight.’



“O most intelligent gardener,” the little bird continued, “when I heard

from the lapwing that the fruits of this garden were become deleterious,

I made haste to pluck and to throw them down, lest any person should

eat of them and be injured. And now if you will promise to liberate me,

I will communicate to you three maxims, by means of which you may be

happy in this world and the next, and friends and foes will alike obey

you.” The gardener said: “Speak!” And the little bird proceeded: “First,

never trust persons of a low and uncongenial disposition; secondly,

never believe impossibilities; and thirdly, never repent of anything

that cannot be remedied.” So the gardener relaxed his hold, and the

little bird flew away, perched on a tree, and stretching out its neck,

exclaimed: “O gardener, if you knew what a treasure you have allowed to

slip from your hand, you would end your own life. Verily, I have deceived

you!” Said the gardener: “How?” “In my body is a gem as large as a duck’s

egg, the like of which has never been discovered by the diver into the

region of imagination. Had you obtained possession of this jewel you

might have lived happily during your whole earthly existence.” When the

gardener heard these words he tore his robe from top to bottom, strewed

the ashes of repentance upon his head, and the brambles of confusion and

uneasiness sprouted in the wilderness of his heart. As he looked to the

right and the left how he might again get hold of the little bird, it

flew to a high tree and said: “Having now by my cunning escaped from

your grasp, I shall take care not to fall into it again. Do not flatter

yourself that you will get hold of me a second time.” The gardener began

to weep and heaved every moment deep sighs from the bottom of his heart,

but the little bird said jeeringly: “It is a pity that the name of man

should be applied to a silly fellow like yourself. I just communicated

to you three maxims, all of which you have already forgotten. I advised

you not to be deceived by mean and uncongenial persons;—why, then,

have you believed my words and set me free? I farther told you not to

believe impossibilities;—then why do you put faith in my words, seeing

that nothing could be more absurd than the idea of a weak little bird

like myself having in its body a gem as large as a duck’s egg? Lastly, I

advised you not to repent of anything which is irreparable, nevertheless

you now moan and lament.” After uttering these words the little bird

disappeared from the sight of the gardener.









APPENDIX.









APPENDIX.





HATIM TAÏ AND THE BENEVOLENT LADY—p. 46.



This story seems to have been written down from recollection of some

of the incidents in the Persian Romance which purports to recount the

adventures of the renowned Hatim et-Ta’í, the generous Arab chief—a work

of uncertain authorship or date. It was probably written about the end

of the 17th or beginning of the 18th century, as the MS. copy used by

Dr. Duncan Forbes for his English translation, published in 1830, which

he procured in 1824, he considered to be at least a hundred years old.

The opening of our version—if indeed such it may be styled—is absurdly

inconsistent with all that is traditionally recorded of Hatim. This

is how the incident of Hatim and the Darvesh is related in a Persian

story-book, according to Dr. Jonathan Scott’s rendering in his _Tales,

Anecdotes, and Letters from the Arabic and Persian_, published in 1800,

p. 251:



Hatim had a large storehouse having 70 entrances, at each of which

he used to bestow alms on the poor. After his death his brother, who

succeeded him, wished to imitate his great example, but his mother

dissuaded him from such an attempt, saying: “My son, it is not in thy

nature.” He would not attend to her advice, upon which she one day,

having disguised herself as a mendicant, came to one of the doors, where

her son relieved her; she went to another door and was relieved once

more; she then went to a third door, when her son said: “I have given

thee twice already, and yet thou importunest me again.” “Did I not tell

thee, my son,” said the mother, discovering herself, “that thou couldst

not equal the liberality of thy brother? I tried him as I have tried

thee, and he relieved me at each of the 70 doors without asking me a

question; but I knew thy nature and his. When I suckled thee, and one

nipple was in thy mouth, thou didst always hold thy hand upon the other,

but thy brother the contrary.”



       *       *       *       *       *



It is quite ludicrous to represent Hatim as setting out for China to see

a lady who was declared by a wandering darvesh to be far more liberal

than himself. From the following abstract of the Romance—which begins

where our story ends—it will be seen that Hatim was actuated by nobler

motives in undertaking his several adventures. The opening of the romance

is reproduced almost in full from Forbes’ translation.





ABSTRACT OF THE ROMANCE OF HATIM TAÏ.



In the kingdom of Khurasan, during the reign of Kardán Sháh, there lived

a worthy merchant, of great dignity, named Burzakh, who was on intimate

terms with the king. He died, leaving an only daughter as his heir,

twelve years of age, and the king took her under his protection, saying:

“She is my daughter.” Husn Bánú esteemed her wealth as no better than

sand, and she began to distribute it in charity. One day a darvesh,

attended by forty slaves[261] passed her house while she was seated in

her balcony. He was the king’s spiritual guide. Husn Bánú sent a servant

to invite him to an entertainment at her house, and he promised to come

the next day. She prepared for an offering to him nine suits of silken

garments, embroidered with gold, and seven trays of pure solid gold and

baskets of fruit. The pride of this darvesh was such that he would not

touch the earth when he walked, but had his path paved with bricks of

gold and silver, and on these alone he placed his feet. On entering the

house of Husn Bánú he was presented with trays full of gold and silver.

He was amazed at the display of wealth, and resolved that very night to

seize the treasure. Accordingly he and his forty slaves broke into the

house, killed such as resisted them, and carried off all the treasure.

Husn Bánú and her nurse, concealed in the lattice, saw the thieves and

knew them. Next day, she complained to the king that the darvesh had

robbed her house. This the king refused to believe, calling the darvesh

the most holy man of the age; but she declared that he was the fiend

of the age. Upon this the king in a rage ordered Husn Bánú and her

attendants to be stoned to death, as a warning to others. But the chief

minister reminded him that she was the daughter of Burzakh the merchant,

and that by putting her to death he would estrange the hearts of his

subjects. So the king spared her life, but caused her to be expelled from

the city.



In the desert, under a shady tree, Husn Bánú and her old nurse fell

asleep; and in a dream a man appeared to Husn Bánú, and told her that

beneath that tree was buried the treasure of the seven regions, hidden

there by the King of Truth, for her sake, and she was to arise and take

possession thereof. “I am a woman,” she replied, “and how can I bring

it out of the earth?” The apparition said: “Dig the earth with a little

spade: let the means be applied by thee, and God will grant success.

Moreover, no one is able forcibly to deprive thee of the treasure. Arise

and build a city on this spot.” Husn Bánú having told of her dream to her

nurse, they both set to work and dug with a piece of wood, when instantly

they saw a pit full of yellow gold, chests full of jewels, cups full of

rubies, and costly pearls the size of ducks’ eggs. Husn Bánú rendered

thanks to the Most High, then giving some gold to her nurse desired

her to return to the city and fetch food and raiment, architects and

labourers. Just then her foster-brother, in a mendicant’s garb, passed

by, and he recognised her. Telling him how God had given her wealth

again, she requested him to bring thither his relations.



The foster-brother soon returned with a builder named Mu’amír. She bids

him begin to build a city, but he explains that the king’s permission

must be first obtained. So Husn Bánú dresses herself in man’s apparel,

and takes for a present a cup full of rubies and a casket full of

brilliant jewels. She gives valuable gifts to the king’s officers,

representing herself as a merchant newly arrived from abroad and desirous

of offering presents to the king. His majesty is astonished to see the

priceless gifts and asks: “Sir, whence art thou?” She replies that her

father was a merchant of Irán, who died at sea; that she was an orphan

and without kindred; had heard of his good qualities; had pitched tents

in a tract of desert, and desired leave to build a city there. The

king presents her with a dress of honour and adopts her as his son; and

suggests that she should rather build her city near the capital and call

it Sháhábád (_i.e._ king’s city). But Husn Bánú prefers the desert, so

the king gives her the required permission.



The city was built in about two years, and Husn Bánú visited the king

once every month. One day he tells her that he is about to visit his

darvesh and prevails on her to accompany him. She invites the darvesh

to her house, and on his consenting she observes: “But my house is far

distant, and in the capital there is the unoccupied house of Burzakh the

merchant.” The king makes it over to her as a free gift. Finding her

father’s house has fallen to decay, she has it repaired and furnished

splendidly. On the day appointed the darvesh came, and he declined the

jewels offered to him by Husn Bánú, who had also displayed vast wealth

throughout the apartment; and even at the banquet he pretended that he

could not partake of dainty dishes. When the darvesh and his attendants

had taken their leave, Husn Bánú caused all the golden dishes, etc. to be

left as at the banquet, and warned the captain of the watch that she had

reason to fear being robbed. At night the darvesh and his forty slaves

entered the house, and having tied up the valuables in bundles were about

to be off with their plunder—the darvesh himself carrying a cup full of

rubies in his hand—when the night watch rushed in, seized and secured the

robbers, and laid them in prison. Next day when the king opened his court

Husn Bánú appeared,[262] and the kutwál brought the prisoners, each with

his bundle of booty hanging from his neck, and made his report. The king

thought the leader of the gang resembled a certain darvesh. Thereupon

Husn Bánú told her story, and the king ordered all the robbers to be

instantly put to death. Her father’s property, of which she had been

formerly robbed, was found in the house of the darvesh, and she presented

it all to the king. Soon after this occurrence the king visited Husn Bánú

at Sháhábád, and she gave him much gold; then pointing out the source of

her wealth desired him to cause his attendants to convey it to his own

treasury. But when they began to handle the gold, it turned into serpents

and dragons, which convinced the king that it was devoted to her sole

use. She built a house for the entertainment of travellers, each of whom

received a handsome present on leaving, and the fame of her generosity

was noised abroad.



       *       *       *       *       *



Husn Bánú, being young, beautiful, and passing rich, had of course many

suitors for her hand in marriage, and she one day consulted with her

nurse as to the best means of securing herself from the importunity of

worldly men. The nurse said she had seven questions (or tasks), which

Husn Bánú should propose to every suitor, and he who complied with the

terms which they embraced should be her husband, to which she agreed.

Her fame being spread far and wide, Prince Munir, the son of the king

of Kharizm, sent a painter to draw her portrait, which he did from the

reflection of her face in a vessel full of water[263] and brought it to

the prince, who on seeing it became quite frantic from love, and that

same night he set out privily for Sháhábád. Obtaining an interview with

Husn Bánú and declaring his passion, she replied: “You must first answer

me seven questions. There is a man who constantly exclaims: ‘_What I

once saw I long to see a second time_.’ Inform me where he lives and

what he saw, and then I will put the second question.” The prince takes

his leave and wanders about all sad at heart. He is met by Hatim Taï,

who learns from him the cause of his evident sorrow, and undertakes to

perform the task for him. Having entertained the prince for three days,

Hatim takes him back to Sháhábád, and they go into the caravanserai

there; but Hatim refusing both the food and the gold always presented to

travellers, he is taken before Husn Bánú, who asks him the reason of this

strange conduct. Hatim only desires to look at her face. She tells him

that he must first bring her the solution of seven questions, to which

Hatim agrees, on the condition that she would become at his disposal in

the event of his succeeding, which condition was at once written and

signed and confirmed by witnesses. Then Hatim, leaving the love-struck

prince at the caravanserai, sets out to obtain an answer to Husn Bánú’s

_First Question_.



       *       *       *       *       *



After many surprising adventures, Hatim at length reaches a desert where

an old man is crying: “_What I once saw I long to see a second time_,”

and learns from him that once he was walking on the border of a lake,

when he saw a damsel who took him by the hand and leaped with him into

the water, whereupon he found himself in a magnificent garden and beheld

a lovely female form closely veiled; and on venturing to raise the veil

he was instantly struck to the ground, and opening his eyes found himself

in that desert, where he had ever since wandered about, restless and

forlorn, wishing to see that beauteous fairy once more. Hatim—for whom

nothing was too difficult, for he had all sorts of talismans—conducts

the old man to the fairy, after which he returns with the required

information to Husn Bánú.



       *       *       *       *       *



His _Second Adventure_ is to ascertain why a man has above his door these

words: “_Do good, and cast it on the water_;” who he is, and where his

house is situated. In the course of this expedition he performs three

additional tasks in order to obtain for another distracted lover the

daughter of a merchant for his wife, the second of which is: Who is the

man that cries every Friday and why does he cry: “_I have done nothing

that will benefit me this night_”? Hatim comes to a sand-hill (having

been directed to the spot by the grateful inhabitants of a town, whose

lives he had saved by slaying a man-eating monster), and hears the voice.

As he advances he discovers a number of the dead rising out of their

graves, with angelic countenances and apparelled in splendid robes—all

save one, who was covered with dust and ashes and sat on the cold ground,

while the others sat on thrones drinking nectar, and never gave him to

drink thereof. This wight sighed heavily and exclaimed: “_Alas, I have

not done that which might benefit me this night!_” He tells Hatim that

he was a merchant and those around him had been his servants. He was

a great miser, but his servants fed the hungry and clothed the naked.

On a journey a gang of robbers attacked and murdered him and all his

followers. “Here they rest as martyrs—_they_ are crowned with glory,

while I am plunged in misery. In the capital of China, my native country,

are my grandchildren living in abject poverty. In a certain chamber

of my house is buried an immense treasure, of which no living man has

knowledge.” Hatim inquires whether it was possible for him to minister to

his relief. “Proceed to the capital of China,” says the miser’s shade,

“and find out my house. My name is Yúsuf, and in my day I was well

known in all parts of the city. Seek my descendants; tell them of the

treasure; divide it into four equal portions; bestow one portion on my

grandchildren, and the other three on the poor of the city; then perhaps

my case may be ameliorated.” Hatim goes at once to the capital of China,

but before he is allowed to enter he must answer three questions put to

every stranger by the governor’s daughter. Of course Hatim gives correct

solutions of the enigmas, and then complies with the directions of the

miser’s ghost.



He now addresses himself seriously to the solution of the Second

Question of Husn Bánú, but he has many wondrous experiences before he

comes at length to the bank of a large river, on which is a lofty mansion

of stone, and over the door is written the motto: “_Do good, and cast

it on the water_.” Ushered by attendants into the house, Hatim sees a

venerable man of a hundred years seated upon a throne, who receives him

with great courtesy and causes him to be supplied with refreshments. When

Hatim asks the meaning of the motto over the door, the old man relates

his history: In his youth he was a great robber, yet every day he made

two large loaves mixed with sweet oil and sugar, which he threw into

the river, saying: “This I give away, to propitiate Heaven.” One day,

continues the old robber, “I was seized with a sickness and I thought a

man grasped me by the hand and pointing to the infernal regions said:

‘There is the place destined for thee.’ But two youths, divinely fair,

came up and laid hold of me, saying: ‘We will not permit this man to

be cast into hell, sinful though he has been. His future state is in

Paradise, and thither let us carry him.’” They conveyed him accordingly

to the regions of bliss, and an angel of exalted rank telling them that

he had a hundred years yet to live, they brought him back to his house,

and explained that they were the two loaves he was wont to cast into the

water for fishes to feed on. His health was at once restored and he made

two loaves as before. When he went to cast them into the water he found

a hundred dínars, which he took up and carried to the village, where he

caused it to be proclaimed that such a sum of money had been found, but

no one came to claim it. Next day when he went to the river with the two

loaves he found another hundred dínars, and this continued till the eve

of the eleventh day, when a man appeared to him in the visions of the

night and said: “Servant of the Almighty, thy two loaves have pleaded thy

cause in heaven: the merciful Creator has forgiven thy sins. The dínars

which thou receivest are for thy subsistence, and what is superfluous

do thou bestow in charity.” Since then the old robber had built that

mansion and written the motto over the door, and every day when he went

to throw the loaves into the river he found a hundred dínars.[264]



       *       *       *       *       *



Hatim returns with this story to Husn Bánú, and she forthwith despatches

him on his _Third Adventure:_ “There is a man who constantly cries:

‘_Injure no one; if you do, evil will overtake you_.’ Find out where that

man lives, what injury he has done, and what evil has overtaken him.”

After having performed a difficult task on behalf of a despairing lover

whom he met on his way, Hatim at length, aided by a band of fairy troops,

arrives at the outskirts of Himyar, where he hears a voice crying these

words, and discovers a blind man confined in a cage, which is suspended

from a branch of a tree. Hatim having promised to mend his condition and

relieve him, the blind man related his history, as follows:



“I am by occupation a merchant, and my name is Hamír. When I became of

age, my father had finished the building of this city, and he called the

same after my name. Shortly after my father departed on a sea voyage and

left me in charge of the city. I was a free-hearted and social young man,

and so in a short time expended all the property left under my care by my

father. Thus I became surrounded with poverty and want; and as I knew

that my father had hidden treasures somewhere in his house I resolved to

discover them if possible. I searched everywhere, but found nothing; and,

to complete my woe, I received the news of my father’s death, the ship in

which he sailed being wrecked.



“One day as I was sauntering, mournful and dejected, through the bazár,

I espied a learned man who cried out: ‘If any one has lost his money

by theft or otherwise, my knowledge of the occult sciences enables me

to recover the same, but on condition that I receive one fourth of

the amount.’ When I heard this seasonable proclamation, I immediately

approached the man of science, and stated to him my sad condition and

how I had been reduced from affluence to poverty. The sage undertook to

restore my wealth, and above all to discover the treasures concealed in

my father’s house. I conducted him to the house and showed him every

apartment, which he carefully examined one after another. At length by

his art he discovered the stores we were in search of; and when I saw

the gold and silver and other valuables, which exceeded calculation,

the demon of fraud entered my heart, and I refused to fulfil my promise

of giving a fourth of the property to the man of wisdom. I offered him

only a few small pieces of silver; instead of accepting which, he stood

for a few moments in silent meditation, and with a look of scorn said:

‘Do I thus receive the fourth part of your treasure, which you agreed

to give me? Base man, of what perjury are you guilty!’ On hearing this

I became enraged, and having struck him several blows on the face I

expelled him from my house. In a few days, however, he returned, and

so far ingratiated himself into my confidence, that we became intimate

friends; and night and day he displayed before my sight the various

hidden treasures contained within the bowels of the earth. One day I

asked him to instruct me in this wonderful science, to which he answered

that no instruction was requisite. ‘Here,’ said he, ‘is a composition of

surma, and whoever applies the same to his eyes, to him will all the

wealth of this world become visible.’[265] ‘Most learned sir,’ I replied,

‘if you will anoint my eyes with this substance, I promise to share with

you the half of all such treasures as I may discover.’ ‘I agree,’ said my

friend: ‘meanwhile let us retire to the desert, where we shall be free

from interruption.’



“We immediately set out, and when we arrived here I was surprised at

seeing this cage, and asked my companion whose it was. I received for

answer, that it belonged to no one. In short, we both sat down at the

foot of this tree, and the sage, having produced the surma from his

pocket, began to apply it to my eyes. But, alas! no sooner had he applied

this composition than I became totally deprived of sight. In a voice of

sorrow I asked him why he had thus treated me, and he replied: ‘Such is

the reward of treachery; and if you wish to recover your sight, you must

for some time undergo penance in this cage. You must utter no complaint

and you shall exclaim from time to time: “Do no evil to any one; if

you do, evil will befall you.”’ I entreated the sage to relieve me,

saying: ‘You are a mere mortal like myself, and dare you thus torment

a fellow-creature? How will you account for your deeds to the Supreme

Judge?’ He answered: ‘This is the reward of your treachery.’ Seeing him

inexorable, I begged of him to inform me when and how my sight was to be

restored; and he told me, that a noble youth should one day visit me,

and to him I was to make known my condition, and farther state that in

the desert of Himyar there is a certain herb called the Flower of Light,

which the youth was to procure and apply to my eyes, by means of which my

sight should be restored.



“It is now three years since he left me in this prison, which, though

quite open, I cannot quit. Were I to attempt to leave my confinement,

I should feel the most excruciating pain in my limbs, so as not to

have the power of moving, and thus I am compelled to remain. One day,

shortly after my companion left me, I reflected that I could do nothing

for myself while I continued like a bird in this cage, and accordingly

resolved to quit it at all hazards; but the moment I was outside of

it the pain that seized my whole body almost killed me. I immediately

returned to my prison, and have since that time resigned myself to my

fate, exclaiming at stated times the words which have attracted your

attention. Many people have passed by me, but on learning my condition

they left me as they found me.”



When the man in the cage had ended his story, Hatim bade him be of good

cheer, for he would at once endeavour to relieve him. By the aid of the

fairies who had conducted him thither and now carry him through the air

for the space of seven days, he arrives in the desert where the Flowers

of Light shine brilliant as lamps on a festival night, diffusing the

sweetest perfume far and wide; and, recking naught for the serpents,

scorpions, and other beasts of prey which infest the place (for he was

guarded by a powerful talisman), he advances and plucks three of the

largest and most brilliant flowers. Returning in the same manner as he

had come, he reaches the spot where the blind man Hamír is imprisoned.

Taking down the cage, he releases the wretched man, compresses the stalk

of the flower so that the juice should drop upon his sightless eyeballs,

and when this has been repeated three times Hamír opens his eyes, and,

seeing Hatim, falls prostrate at his feet with a profusion of thanks.



       *       *       *       *       *



The _Fourth Adventure_ is: “Who is the man that has this motto over

his door: ‘_He who speaks the truth is always tranquil_’; wherein has

he spoken the truth, and what degree of tranquility does he enjoy in

consequence?” Passing through regions of enchantment, Hatim then comes

to a city, and discovers the motto written above the gate of a splendid

mansion. He enters and is received graciously by an old man, who

entertains him hospitably. Next day he relates his story: He is eight

hundred years old. In youth he was a great gambler, and having lost all

his substance he became a robber. One night he broke into the king’s

palace, entered one of the chambers, where the daughter of the king was

sleeping, and seizing all her jewels and a golden lamp that burned beside

her he made his escape. He fled to a desert, where he found a gang of

thieves dividing their plunder, to whom he showed his own booty, and

their avarice was aroused so that they were proceeding to take it from

him by force, when a tremendous voice was heard close by, at which they

ran off in different directions. Presently a figure appeared before him

and demanded: “Who art thou?” He told his story. “’Tis well for thee,”

said the figure, “that thou hast related the whole truth; therefore I

forgive thy crime, and leave the treasure to thy enjoyment. But swear

never to gamble again.” He took the required oath. “Well, keep thy oath,

and the years of thy life shall reach nine hundred.” Returning to the

city with his plunder, his comrades envied his prosperity, and reported

him to the chief of the police, who brought him before the king, to whom

he told the whole truth as to the source of his wealth, and the king

pardoned him and gave him more gold. Then he wrote that motto over his

door.



       *       *       *       *       *



Hatim’s _Fifth Adventure_ is to bring an account of Mount Nida, whence a

voice from time to time proceeds, crying: “Come quickly!” Whereupon one

of the citizens in the neighbourhood is seized with an uncontrollable

frenzy, rushes away to the mountain and is seen no more. This strange

occurrence Hatim learns is the manner in which the inhabitants taste of

death: when the doomed person approached a rock it split asunder, and

as soon as he had entered the opening it closed behind him and his soul

quitted his body.



       *       *       *       *       *



The _Sixth Adventure_ is to procure Husn Bánú a pearl similar to one

she already possesses, which is as large as a duck’s egg. Hatim learns

from the conversation of a pair of Nitka birds that their species used

to “lay” such pearls once in thirty years, but this faculty had ceased

since the days of Solomon; that only two were on the face of the earth

now (all others being at the bottom of the sea), one being in the

possession of Husn Bánú, the other in the treasury of a fairy, who has

an only daughter: he who can tell the history of that pearl (which Hatim

has heard from the well-informed birds) shall have her in marriage and

the pearl for her dowry. Needless to add that Hatim is successful in

his quest, bestows the young fairy on her lover, who had been unable to

comply with her father’s condition, and returns with the pearl to Husn

Bánú.



       *       *       *       *       *



Hatim’s _Seventh Adventure_, and the last, is to bring the lady an

account of the bath of Badgird—an enchanted palace erected for the

preservation of a peerless and priceless diamond by its owner, a powerful

magician. The stone is in the body of a parrot, Hatim is told by a bird

of the same species before entering the hall, and whoever enters shall

never return unless he obtain possession of the gem. He will find a bow

and three arrows laid on a sofa in the hall, and must shoot the arrows

at the parrot, and if he hit right through its head he will break the

spell, but if not, he will, like all others before him, be turned to

marble. Nothing daunted, Hatim shoots one arrow, and, missing, he becomes

marble up to his knees; the second arrow also missing, he becomes marble

up to his middle; but (placing his reliance in God) when he shoots the

third arrow it pierces the head of the parrot and it falls lifeless to

the ground. This achievement is immediately followed by a storm of wind,

thunder, lightning—darkness. And Hatim can see no palace or parrot, but

at his feet are the bow and arrow and a diamond of dazzling brilliance.

No sooner had Hatim seized the diamond than all the marble statues

started into life, being freed from the spell of the enchanter.



Returning to Sháhábád, Hatim presented the diamond to Husn Bánú, and,

as he had now fulfilled all her conditions, she was straightway married

to Prince Munir, who thus reached the summit of happiness. Hatim then

returned to the capital of Yaman, where he was affectionately received

by his father and mother, and his arrival was hailed with universal joy,

while every house resounded with music and mirth. Shortly after this

Hatim’s father resigned the reins of government into his hand and lived

in retirement for the remainder of his life, which amounted to twelve

years, seven months, and nine days. Hatim reigned long and happily in

Yaman.[266]



       *       *       *       *       *



Such is the substance of the wonderful Adventures of Hatim Taï, though I

have necessarily omitted many details and some rather curious incidents:

like a tale in the _Arabian Nights_, out of which spring several other

tales, each of Hatim’s expeditions led him on to others, which had to be

accomplished before he could attain the end for which he originally set

out. He undergoes some extraordinary experiences, too, such as being

swallowed alive and unhurt by a dragon of such monstrous dimensions that

he kept tramping to and fro in its stomach till it was at last obliged,

for its internal peace, to eject him and be off; dipping his hand into

a lake in order to drink of the waters, and finding it instantly turned

into pure silver—where, O where is _that_ lake?—and coming to another,

which had the property of restoring the _argentine_ member to flesh and

blood; not to speak of the scenes of enchantment, which indeed seem to

have been begot of hashish or a like narcotic. With all its absurdities,

however, the _morale_ of the romance is excellent: the hero goes about

constantly doing good; benevolent towards bird and beast as well as to

mankind; feeding the hungry, relieving the distressed, and binding up the

broken heart.—This work is still a first favourite among the Persians,

who continue to entertain a firm belief in dívs, parís, and many other

kinds of spirits, good and evil.



       *       *       *       *       *



Of the three stories which are interwoven with our tale of Hatim and the

Benevolent Lady but one is represented in the Romance, that of the Blind

Man, namely, but the details are very different in the two versions.





_The Painter’s Story (p. 53)_



begins with an account of a fight which he witnessed in his garden

between a white snake and a black snake, and seeing the former was about

to succumb he slew the black snake. This incident also occurs in the

Romance, when Hatim is returning from his second expedition, only the

magnanimous hero does not kill—or even _scotch_—the black snake: he

simply shouts, when it lets go its hold of the other and wriggles off.

The white snake then becomes a handsome young man, and tells Hatim that

he is the son of a king of the jinn, that the black snake is his father’s

slave, and bears a most deadly enmity towards himself, and so forth—an

incident found in many Asiatic story-books. The Painter’s subsequent

experiences in the subaqueous palace of the king of the jinn do not occur

in the romance, though the story is known to several collections, and,

introduced by the incident of the two snakes, it is found, as follows, in

_Turkish Evening Entertainments_, a translation,[267] by J. P. Brown, of

a Turkish story-book entitled _’Ajá’ib el-ma’ásir wa ghara’ib en-nawádir_

(Wonders of Remarkable Incidents and Rarities of Anecdote), by Ahmed ibn

Hemden, the Ketkhoda, surnamed Suhaylí (_i.e._ Canopus), who composed it

for Murád, the fourth Ottoman sultan, who reigned between A.D. 1623 and

A.D. 1640:



In ancient times the sovereign of the country of Sabá was a man called

Yeshrah. One day, when this excellent prince was travelling, he came to

an extensive plain where were two serpents resembling frightful dragons.

One of these was white, the other black. They were entwined around each

other in desperate conflict, and the white one had received a wound in a

most tender part of its body. The black serpent being thus victorious,

the strength of the white one was exhausted; it could move no more,

and the black one wreaked its vengeance upon the helpless animal. King

Yeshrah, touched with pity, went to the assistance of the white snake,

and aided it in its conquered state. He placed a diamond-pointed arrow

in his bow, and, taking aim at the black snake, he let fly and instantly

killed it. The white snake, thus released, crawled away.



One day the king received a visit from a youth of a handsome exterior,

who informed him that he belonged to the race of the jinn, and was the

white serpent rescued by him. The youth then made proffers of service to

the king, which he declined, upon which he offered the king his sister

in marriage. The king, enchanted by her beauty, accepted her, and the

marriage took place on the king undertaking to consent to everything

which his wife did, were it good or evil. Soon after the birth of his

first son, a dog approached the queen, who suddenly cast the child into

the dog’s mouth, and the dog ran away with it, to the king’s great grief.

Their next child, a girl, the queen cast into a brazier, where the infant

was immediately consumed. The king was now exceedingly afflicted; but the

birth of a second daughter, who was so delicately beautiful on account of

her resembling the húrís of Paradise that she was called Bilkís, somewhat

reconciled him to his loss. The king implored her not to treat this child

as she had done the two others, for which she severely rebuked him.



Soon after this a powerful enemy attacked the king, and his own vazír,

secretly allying himself with the enemy, poisoned the provisions designed

for the king’s army. The queen destroyed the provisions, at which the

king in wrath demanded her reason. The queen explained the affair to her

husband, and gave the remaining bread to an animal which fell dead after

eating it. She then said that the king having broken the condition made

on his marriage with her, all intercourse must now cease between them,

and informed him that the son thrown to the dog was still alive, and

had been brought up by a nurse in that form, and that the daughter was

also in perfect health, nursed by the fire. Beseeching him to be mindful

of their daughter Bilkís, who should succeed to the throne and become

a great and illustrious queen, and promising to send to his succour an

army of jinn-soldiers, she disappeared from the king’s sight for ever.

The troops of jinn came to his assistance as promised, routed the enemy’s

forces, and restored the king to his throne. But still he was afflicted

by the loss of his wife. At length the fatal moment arrived, and he died;

and his daughter Bilkís succeeded him on the throne, and her history has

been written elsewhere in a detailed manner.



       *       *       *       *       *



Thus, if we may place any credit in the foregoing story, the

thrice-renowned Queen of Sheba was jinn-born: no wonder, therefore, if

she was a miracle of beauty and wisdom! It does not appear, however,

why her fairy-mother did not dispose of her soon after she was born,

in the same extraordinary manner as she “made away” with her previous

babes.—Regarding the notion that when a human being unites with one of

a supernatural order there are certain conditions always imposed by the

latter, the breaking of which must result in their separation, generally

temporary, I take leave to refer the reader to my _Popular Tales and

Fictions_, vol. i, p. 212 ff.



In more or less different forms the same story is found in the following

works: in _Les Mille et un Jours_, which purports to have been

translated, by Petis de la Croix, from a Persian collection entitled

_Hazár ú Yek Rúz_, the Thousand and one Days, by a darvesh named Mukhlis,

of Isfahán, from whom M. Petis obtained a copy in 1675, where it is

entitled “Histoire du Roi Ruzvanschad et de la Princesse Cheheristani,”

but in this version the king’s fairy-wife leaves him only for a time;

in a Turkish story-book, entitled _Al-Faraj ba’d al-Shiddah_, Joy after

Distress, a work written not later than the 15th century;[268] and in a

collection described by Dr. Chas. Rieu in his _Catalogue of Persian MSS.

in the British Museum_, vol. ii, p. 759, Or. 237, which has no specific

title, the compiler, whose poetical name was Hubbí, merely calling his

work, _Hikáyát-i’Agíb ú Gharíb_, Wonderful and Strange Tales. In this

last work, the MS. of which is unfortunately imperfect, the final story,

No. 34, relates how a king of Yaman, while hunting, saw two snakes,

a white one and a black one, engaged in deadly combat. He sends an

attendant to kill the black snake and rescue the white one, which was

half dead; which being done, he causes the rescued snake to be laid down

beside a spring of water, under the shade of a tree. The snake rallies,

and after a while crawls away. When the king is asleep at night, the wall

of his chamber suddenly opens and a fair youth appears. “I am,” says he,

“the king of the parís (fairies). You rescued me from the black snake.

I am now come to requite your kind act. If you wish it, I will make you

rich with many treasures.” No more of the MS. remains,[269] but it is not

unlikely that the sequel was similar to that of the Turkish story cited

above.



       *       *       *       *       *



The battle between the two snakes, which is found so often reproduced

in Arabian and Persian story-books—though I cannot recollect having met

with it in any Indian collection—seems reflected in two incidents in the

Voyage of Saint Brandan. One day the saint and his companions discover a

monstrous sea-serpent on the surface of the water, exhaling fire from its

nostrils, as it were the roaring flame of a furnace; and while the pious

voyagers could not measure its length they were more successful with its

breadth, which was “full fifteen feet, I trow”; presently a monster of

the same species appears, and a terrific combat takes place between the

two, until one is torn by his antagonist into _three_ pieces, when the

victor sinks down into the sea. After this they see a deadly conflict in

the air between a griffin and a dragon.—It is well known to students of

the history of popular fictions that many Eastern tales and incidents

had found their way into Western literature long before the collection

commonly but incorrectly called the _Arabian Nights_, in its existing

form, was compiled.



Among the countless absurdities abounding in the _Toldoth Jeshu_, a

scurrilous “life” of Jesus Christ of Jewish invention—the text of which,

with a Latin translation, is given at the end of the second volume of

Wagenseil’s _Tela Ignea Satanæ_, 1681—is an aërial conflict between

Jeshu and Rabbi Judas before Queen Helena: “And when Jeshu had spoken

the incommunicable Name,[270] there came a wind and raised him between

heaven and earth. Thereupon Judas spake the same Name, and the wind

raised him also between heaven and earth. And they flew, both of them,

around in the regions of the air, and all who saw it marvelled. Judas

then spake again the Name, and seized Jeshu and sought to cast him to

the earth. But Jeshu also spake the Name, and sought to cast Judas

down, and they strove one with the other.” Ultimately Judas prevails

and casts Jeshu to the ground, and the elders seize him; his power

leaves him; and he is subjected to the tauntings of his captors. Being

rescued by his disciples, he hastened to the Jordan; and when he had

washed therein his power returned, and with the Name he again wrought

his former miracles.[271] This “story”—to employ the term in its nursery

sense—strongly resembles the equally apocryphal legend of the aërial

contest at Rome between St. Peter and Simon Magus, in which the apostle

overthrew the magician.





_The Washerman’s Story (p. 58)_



calls for but slight remark. The fairies who alighted in succession

on the tree in the form of doves, and putting off their feather-dress

appeared as the most beautiful damsels, belong, of course, to the

Bird-Maiden class, and the Washerman, by his own showing, did not deserve

to possess any one of them. Could he have decided—but perhaps the trial

was too much for him—he might have secured even the last and most

bewitching of the three, by taking possession of her feather-robe, when

she would have no alternative but to follow him wheresoever he might go:

but evidently he did not know this. (See the chapter on “Bird-Maidens” in

my _Popular Tales and Fictions_, vol. i. p. 182 ff.)





_The Blind Man’s Story (p. 60)_



differs considerably from its representative in the Romance, the story

of the blind man Hamír in the cage (_ante_ p. 464ff.); and it is also

observable that in our story Hatim does nothing to mitigate the poor

man’s wretchedness. Both versions agree in treasure being found in a

dwelling house; but in our story it is the geomancer who is the blind

man, and his eyes are blinded in mistake by a vindictive neighbour of

the friend whom he thought to entrap;—while in the other story it is

the man in whose house the treasure was discovered who is blinded by

the geomancer, in revenge of the ill-treatment he had received at his

hands; and it is by the application of _surma_ to his eyes, by means of

which he expected to behold all the hidden treasure of the world, that

he is deprived of sight. The analogous tale in our common version of the

_Arabian Nights_, of the Blind Man Baba Abdullah (it has not yet been

found in any Arabic text of the collection), is wholly different in all

its details until it reaches the catastrophe, when the greedy cameleer,

after getting back from the darvesh all his share of the treasure,

returns to request the box of salve, which, after having had applied to

his left eye and thereby been enabled to see all concealed treasure, he

insists—in spite of the repeated warning of the darvesh—on being also

applied to his right eye, whereupon he instantly becomes stone-blind.

Widely as the three stories differ one from the other, in details,

however, it is very evident, I think, that they have been independently

adapted from a common source.



       *       *       *       *       *



The very climax of absurdity is surely reached by the author of our

version of the story of Hatim when he represents the _benevolent_ Lady as

saying (p. 50) that she is so jealous of the wide-spread fame of Hatim

for liberality that she wishes him to be killed; and when, on his return,

she reproaches him for not having brought her Hatim’s head, he replies

that he is himself Hatim and that his head is at her disposal, whereupon

the lady, struck with such magnanimity, at once consents to marry him.



According to tradition, an enemy of Hatim despatched one of his officers

to slay him and bring his head. When he reached the encampments of the

tribe of Ta’í, he was courteously greeted by an Arab, and invited into

his tent, where he was treated most hospitably; and in the morning he

told his host that he had been sent thither by his master to slay Hatim

and bring back his head. The host smilingly replied: “I am Hatim; and

if my head will gratify your master, smite it off without delay.” The

man hastened away in confusion; and returning to his master told him of

his adventure, and the enemy of Hatim ever afterwards loved and esteemed

him.—This seems to be the tradition adapted so incongruously by our

author.



       *       *       *       *       *



The idea of our tale of Hatim and the Benevolent Lady may have been

partly taken from the Story of the Third Darvesh in the Persian work,

_Kissa-i Chehár Darvesh_ (Romance of the Four Darveshes), an anonymous

book, of uncertain date,[272] where the narrator, a Persian prince, tells

how he tried to imitate the generosity of Hatim, by causing a great

palace to be erected with four gates, at each of which he distributed

gold and silver to all comers. One day a wandering darvesh receives money

at each of the gates in succession, and then begins to beg again at

the first gate, upon which the prince upbraids him for his greediness,

and the darvesh retorts, as in our story, that there is a lady to

whose liberality there is absolutely no bound. The prince learns that

this generous lady is the princess of Basra, and donning the robe of a

darvesh he sets out for that city, where he is sumptuously entertained

for several days by the servants of the princess, after which he writes

her a letter, declaring his rank and offering her marriage. He is told

that the princess has resolved to marry only him who should bring her

the explanation of the singular conduct of a youth in the city of Namrúz

who appeared once a month riding on a bull, carrying a vase of gold

and jewels in his hand, which he smashed in the market-place, and then

smote off the head of one of his slaves, immediately afterwards riding

away again, foaming at the mouth. The royal mendicant undertakes to

ascertain the cause of the youth’s madness (he proves to be in love

with a fairy, like the Painter in our tale), and before setting out

for Namrúz is admitted into the private chamber of the princess, who

is concealed behind a curtain, where a slave-girl relates the history

of her mistress: how she was one of seven daughters of a king, and was

driven out of the palace because she would not acknowledge that she

derived her good fortune from her father, but maintained that it was from

God. In the wilderness she meets a darvesh, and discovers underground

immense treasures, and so forth.—This story of the princess of Basra is

one of the numerous parallels or analogous tales cited by my friend Mr.

E. Sidney Hartland in a very able and interesting paper on the “Outcast

Child” cycle, in the _Folk-Lore Journal_, 1886, vol. iv, p. 308 ff.





STORY OF PRINCE KASHARKASHA.



The latter part of this tale—where the merchant Sadullah befriends the

imprudent prince, bestows his own wife on him, afterwards becomes ruined

in fortune, and visits the now prosperous sovereign, on whom he had

lavished such favours (pp. 89-97)—has long been current in Europe as well

as in the East, in various forms. It occurs in the collection of Persian

Tales translated into French by Petis de la Croix, under the title of

_Les Mille et un Jours_ (first published in 1710-12, 5 vols.), where it

is entitled: “Histoire de Nasiraddole, roi de Mousel; d’Abderrahmane,

marchand de Baghdad; et de la belle Zeineb,” and it is to the following

effect:



A rich young merchant named Abd er-Rahman, meets with a stranger in a

confectioner’s shop in Baghdád, and the two soon become very intimate

friends. After some time the stranger informs the merchant that he must

now return to Mosúl. The merchant says that he himself may soon have to

visit that town, and begs to know his friend’s name, so that he may be

able to inquire for him there. The stranger bids him to come and see him

at the palace. Abd er-Rahman goes to Mosúl on business and discovers

that the stranger is no less a personage than King Nasír ad-Dole, who

is delighted to see him and entertains him in the palace for a whole

year, after which he returns to Baghdád, the king parting with him very

reluctantly. Arrived in Baghdád, the merchant regales his friends and

acquaintances in the most sumptuous manner, and purchases a number of

slave-girls, with one of whom, a Circassian beauty called Zaynib, he

becomes greatly enamoured. The king of Mosúl comes again to Baghdád,

without attendants, and is the honoured and cherished guest of his friend

the merchant Abd er-Rahman. One day the king boasts of some beautiful

slave-girls in his haram in Mosúl, when the merchant, inflamed with wine,

leads the king into an inner apartment, magnificently furnished, where

are seated thirty lovely damsels, adorned profusely with the rarest

diamonds. The king is perfectly amazed on beholding the peerless beauty

of Zaynib, and on the following day, in a melancholy tone, informs his

friend that he intends returning at once to Mosúl. “Has your majesty

aught to complain of, that you have formed this sudden resolution?” the

merchant inquired anxiously. “All my complaint,” replied the king, “is

of my destiny”; but when he is about to depart his friend learns from

him that he is desperately in love with the fair Zaynib, and then the

king takes his leave and sets out for Mosúl. Abd er-Rahman then reflects

that he should not have shown Zaynib to the king, who must now lead a

sorrowful life. At length he resolves to send the damsel to his royal

friend, and, having ordered her litter to be prepared, sends for Zaynib

and tells her that she does not now belong to him, but to the king of

Mosúl, whom she saw yesterday;—“he is in love with you, and is himself

lovely.” Zaynib bursts into tears and exclaims: “Ah, you no longer love

me—some other damsel has taken your heart from me!” “Not so,” says he.

“I swear that I have never loved you so much as I do at this moment.”

“Why, then, do you part with me?” “Because I cannot bear the thought of

my friend’s sorrow.” So a number of attendants are sent with Zaynib to

Mosúl, but the king had arrived there before them. When she is ushered

into the palace, the king perceives that she is sorrowful, and that his

presence is distasteful to her—evidently she cannot forget the merchant.



Meanwhile Abd er-Rahman falls into a languishing condition, and one day

the grand vazír sends officers to apprehend him on a trumped-up charge

of having spoken disrespectfully of the Khalíf in his cups, made by

two envious courtiers, his enemies. The merchant’s house is razed, his

wealth is confiscated, and he is to be put to death the next day. But

the gaoler, whom the merchant had formerly befriended, takes pity on him

and secretly sets him at liberty. When the vazír learns of this he sends

for the gaoler and tells him that if the merchant is not re-captured in

the course of twenty-four hours he will certainly suffer in his place.

The gaoler answers that he believes the merchant to be innocent of the

crime charged against him. In the meantime Abd er-Rahman is concealed

in a friend’s house and the police are scouring the country in search

of him, and during their absence from the city he escapes and takes the

road to Mosúl. When he enters the palace there, the king simply orders

his treasurer to give him two hundred gold sequins. The poor merchant is

surprised that the king should bestow such a paltry sum on him, after

the sacrifice he had made by presenting the fair Zaynib to his majesty.

He takes the money, however, and tries all means of increasing it by

trade. At the end of six months he returns to the king and informs him

that he has lost fifty of the two hundred sequins by his unfortunate

speculations. The king bids his treasurer give him fifty more sequins,

again to the surprise of the merchant, who departs once more on a trading

expedition, but this time he gains a hundred sequins and returning to

Mosúl he acquaints the king of his success. “Misfortunes are contagious,”

said the king. “I had heard of your disgrace and dared not receive you

into my palace again, fearing that your ill luck should affect me and

put it out of my power to assist you when your star should look more

favourably on you. But now you shall live with me.” Next day the king

tells the merchant that he purposes giving him a good wife. “Alas,” says

he, “I cannot think of any woman after my beloved Zaynib.” But the king

insists, and that same night the merchant is agreeably surprised to find

that the wife given him by his royal friend is none other than Zaynib,

whom the king has all along regarded as a sister. Not long after this Abd

er-Rahman learns that one of his accusers has confessed, and he goes to

Baghdád and recovers part of his wealth, and passes the rest of his life

at the court of Mosúl.[273]



       *       *       *       *       *



In another form the tale of the Two Friends is found in the _Disciplina

Clericalis_ of Peter Alphonsus, a Spanish Jew, of the twelfth century,

whence it was probably taken into the _Gesta Romanorum_, the celebrated

mediæval monkish collection of “spiritualised” stories for the use

of preachers (page 196 of Herrtage’s edition, published by the Early

English Text Society). It is also found in Boccaccio’s _Decameron_ (Day

x, novelle 8); and Lydgate, the monk of Bury, of the fifteenth century,

turned it into verse under the title of “Fabula duorum mercatorum,”

beginning:



    “In Egipt whilom as I rede and fynde”



(Harleian MS. 2251, lf. 56, preserved in the British Museum); and it

forms one of the _Fabliaux_ in Le Grand’s collection, of which this is a

translation:



Two merchants had been for a long time connected in business. They had

never seen each other, one residing at Baldak [Baghdád?] and the other in

Egypt; notwithstanding which, from their long correspondence and mutual

services, they entertained a reciprocal esteem and friendship as if they

had passed their lives together. The Syrian merchant at last became

very desirous to have an interview with his correspondent, and set out

on his journey with that intention, after having apprised his friend

of it. The Egyptian rejoiced heartily at the news, and on his friend’s

approach went out several leagues to meet him. On his arrival he lodged

the Syrian in his own house, and, making a display of his riches and

all that he possessed, told him that everything was at his disposal. In

order to amuse his guest, he invited several persons successively to his

table. For a week together there was nothing but feasting and pleasure;

but in the midst of their enjoyment the traveller was so struck with the

beauty of a lady who had one day been present that he fell dangerously

ill. Immediately all the best physicians of the country were sent for. At

first, neither by his pulse nor by any other symptom could they discover

the nature of the merchant’s disorder; but at length by his profound

melancholy they conjectured that love was the cause. The Egyptian on

hearing this conjured him to disclose his secret, that the remedy might

if possible be found. His guest, thus called upon and pressed to declare

it, acknowledged that he was in love and that without possession of the

object of his affection he could not endure life. “But where to find her

I know not. I am wholly unacquainted with her name and abode. My eyes

beheld her once, to my great misfortune, but day and night her image is

present and without her I shall certainly die.” He then fainted away.

For several hours he continued in this trance, and was even thought

dead. Awaking at length, he cast his eyes about the room to discover

the object of his passion, but in vain. She was not among the persons

present. His friend at last, in order to obtain for him, if possible, a

sight of his beloved, thought of bringing successively to his bedside

all the ladies who had been invited to the feasts, or whom he could have

seen since his arrival in the country. But she was not of the number.

Ultimately the people of the house recollected that there was in an inner

chamber a young lady whom the Egyptian merchant loved to distraction,

and had brought up with the greatest care, intending her soon to be his

wife. She was by his desire introduced. Instantly on seeing her the

Syrian exclaimed: “That is she to whom I am to owe either my life or my

death!” The Egyptian merchant demurred for some time; but, with a heroic

resolution sacrificing his passion to his friendship, he presented the

lady to his guest. He not only consented to their union but even insisted

on giving her a marriage portion. He made her presents of rich stuffs and

money, and himself took charge of the nuptials, to which he did not fail

to invite minstrels, who sang pantomimic songs and enlivened the feast

with all manner of gaiety.



When all these carousals were ended the merchant proceeded to take leave

of his generous host and to return into his own country. His friends

on his arrival pressed forward to congratulate him. There was a fresh

celebration of the nuptials with rejoicings which lasted for a fortnight,

after which the merchant and his spouse lived happily together. But

in the meantime sad misfortunes occurred to the Egyptian merchant: he

met with such losses that he was entirely ruined. In this deplorable

situation he thought of having recourse to his friend at Baldak, and

determined to visit him there, reckoning on his gratitude for the eminent

services which he had rendered him. He was obliged to make this long

journey on foot and to suffer both hunger and thirst, to endure both heat

and cold, extremes of misery to which he had hitherto been unaccustomed.

At length after much fatigue he arrived about nightfall at Baldak. But at

the moment when he was about to enter the city the state of wretchedness

in which he was excited in him a feeling of shame at proceeding farther.

He thought that if he presented himself in the dark to his friend in

that miserable state he would not recollect him, and therefore he judged

it better to wait till morning. With this intention he entered a temple

which was hard by. No sooner did he find himself in this dismal, lonely

place than a multitude of melancholy ideas assailed him. “Good God!”

cried he, “to what a wretched condition has thy will reduced me! Alas, my

former affluence renders it still more miserable. I had all that I could

desire, and now I find myself an outcast, without property and without

friends! Surely in such circumstances death is preferable to existence.”

While he was speaking thus to himself he suddenly heard a great noise in

the temple. A murderer had taken flight thither and some of the citizens

were following to seize him. They asked the Egyptian whether he had seen

the assassin. He, who wished to die and thus terminate at once his shame

and his sufferings, declared himself the guilty person. He was instantly

seized, bound, and thrown into prison. The next day he was brought before

the judge and being convicted was condemned to the gallows. When the time

for the execution arrived a great number of people flocked to the place,

and amongst them the friend whose life he had saved and in quest of whom

he had left his native country. He had not forgotten the obligation, and

luckily he recognised his friend. But what could he do at this juncture

to save his life? He could think only of one method, and that was to

devote himself for his friend. Having taken this sudden resolution, he

exclaimed: “Good people, take care what you are about, and do not be

guilty of the sin of punishing an innocent man. It was I who committed

the murder.” This declaration astonished the assembly. The execution

was suspended, the merchant was arrested, and they began to unloose the

stranger. But the real assassin happened to be there, and when he saw

them binding the merchant he was seized with remorse. “What!” cried he

to himself, “shall this honest man die for my crimes whilst I escape? I

cannot escape the vengeance of God! No! I will not charge my conscience

with a second offence, but will rather expiate my crime by suffering here

than subject myself to the indignation of the Deity, who can punish for

ever.” He then made a full confession and was brought before the judges,

who, being puzzled at this extraordinary case, referred it to the king,

who, no less perplexed than they, sent for the three prisoners, and

promising them pardon if they would declare the truth, interrogated them

himself. Each then recounted with fidelity what had happened, and the

consequence was that they were all three pardoned and discharged. The

Syrian went home with his friend, whom he in his turn had had the good

fortune to save. He ordered some refreshments to be served up to him, and

said: “If you choose to reside here, my friend, I call God to witness

that you shall never be in want of anything, but shall be as much master

as myself of all I possess. If you prefer returning to your own country,

I offer you the half of my wealth, or whatever part you may please to

take of it.” The Egyptian declared his desire was rather to return home,

and he departed, charged with presents.



       *       *       *       *       *



Under the title of the “Mirror of Friends,” the Spanish novelist Matias

de los Reyes (1634) relates this favourite story, varying the incidents

of the _fabliau_ version as above, and with a tragical catastrophe. This

is an abstract of Reyes’ tale, following Roscoe’s translation, in his

_Spanish Novelists_, ed. 1832, pp. 17-39:



A young man[274] is placed at the university of Bologna, under the

guardianship of a friend of his father, named Federico, whose son

Lisardo and he at once become most intimate friends. There was so close

a resemblance between the two youths in person and features that one was

often mistaken for the other. Four years after entering the university,

he falls in love with a pretty girl whom he saw seated at a balcony—it

is not said how he got introduced to her—and she returns his affection,

but insists on their engagement being kept a profound secret. Shortly

after this, the father of Laura—such was the sweet name of our youth’s

secret _fiancée_—proposes that she should marry Lisardo, to which his

father Federico most willingly consents, as the young lady’s family are

of high station and very wealthy. This comes like a thunder-clap upon our

poor love-sick youth, but he cannot get himself to confess to Lisardo his

devoted attachment to Laura. As the time draws near for the marriage he

falls dangerously ill—“sick of love”; and if his friend tried to “stay

him with flagons and comfort him with apples,” he did so in vain—albeit

we have high authority for the efficacy of such remedies. At length

Lisardo comes to him one day, and insists upon knowing the secret cause

of his illness and melancholy, otherwise their friendship must be at an

end. He then confesses his love for Laura and their private betrothal.

Lisardo reproaches him for not having told him of this before, since he

would willingly sacrifice his life for his friend; but even now he will

contrive means whereby his friend should be united to the young lady

instead of himself.



On the morning of the marriage-day Lisardo makes his friend dress himself

in his wedding-garments, and, as they were so like each other, none

present at the ceremony suspected but that it was Lisardo who led the

bride to the altar. Next day, at an early hour, the bridegroom goes into

Lisardo’s room and receives his hearty congratulations; but now comes the

question of how to disclose the affair to Lisardo’s father. After some

discussion they go to Federico and confess the deception that had been

practised. At first he is very angry but at length consents to explain

everything to Laura’s father, which he does accordingly, at the same time

stating that the match is quite as good as was intended, and this is

ere long confirmed by the receipt of documents from our youth’s father

conveying property and money to him. Soon afterwards the loving couple

set out for the husband’s home.



Two years pass away, during which Lisardo has not once communicated with

his friend, who now goes to Bologna to ascertain how he fares. He finds

that Lisardo’s father is dead and himself gone no one knows where. Then

he visits all the chief towns and ports of Italy in quest of him, but

without success. Entering Naples for the second time, he perceives a

large concourse of people in the great square, where there is a scaffold

erected, on which he sees a youth with his arms pinioned, and the

executioner, sword in hand, by his side. He recognises in the unhappy

young man his friend Lisardo, and, breaking through the crowd, rushes on

to the scaffold, exclaiming: “This man is innocent—I am the guilty one!”

When the tumult caused by this singular scene is somewhat allayed, the

chief magistrate orders both to be taken to prison in the meantime, and,

as a favour, they are both placed in the same cell. Lisardo reproaches

his friend for casting away his life, and he innocent of any crime,

but his friend replies that he is convinced that Lisardo is equally

innocent, for which Lisardo expresses his gratitude and then proceeds

to tell his story. His father died worth little money, although he had

a reputation of being very rich, and with a few jewels Lisardo departed

from Bologna. As he journeyed he was attacked by a band of robbers, who

plundered him and even stripped off his clothes. A humane cottager gave

him a ragged coat, and he wandered on, not knowing or caring whither he

went. He thought of his friend, but was ashamed to be seen by him in

such a plight. After being sick for six months in a public hospital, he

resumed his wanderings, and one night took shelter in a cavern. In the

morning he was rudely awakened by some peasants, who pointed to the dead

body of a man that lay in the cavern, and accused him of the murder.

Presently the police came and led him off to prison. At his trial he

said nothing in his own defence—for he was weary of life—and he was duly

condemned to death. Having heard this sad story, his friend is now more

than ever determined to save him by the sacrifice of his own life. But

while they are still conversing the cell door is thrown open, and the

prison officials inform them that the real murderers of the man have

just been captured in a gang of desperadoes, who were discovered to be

the same that had robbed Lisardo, his jewels having been found in their

possession. The reaction produced by this sudden intelligence proves too

much for Lisardo’s shattered frame; and, confessing to his friend that

he had from the first loved and had never ceased to love the beauteous

Laura, his devoted spirit took its flight from this earth, leaving his

friend for ever disconsolate: “I shall go to him, but he shall not return

to me!”





STORY OF THE UNLUCKY SHOAYB—p. 110ff.



Was there ever, I wonder, another Shoayb besides the hapless fellow

of this story? Not only did good fortune actually run after him and

he all the while flee from it, as if the pestilence were behind him,

but his very presence anywhere was the cause of manifold disasters! If

there be not, however, amidst the multitude of the world’s folk-tales

an exact parallel to the Story of Shoayb, there is one near akin to it,

from Western India, related by M. Putlibai D. H. Wadia, in the _Indian

Antiquary_, 1886, p. 221, as follows:



Once upon a time there lived in a certain country a merchant, who was

formerly very prosperous, but having suffered great losses in trade, he

came to be in such poor circumstances that starvation stared him in the

face. As the king of the country knew him well, his wife advised him to

go to court, feeling sure that the king would do something for him. The

merchant, however, felt reluctant to go to the king as a suitor, but

after suffering great privations for a long time, when he saw that there

was nothing left for his family but starvation, he made up his mind to

follow his wife’s advice, and one morning presented himself at the court,

which he found crowded with many persons, who had come there on the same

errand as himself. This sight rather unnerved him, and he devoutly hoped

the king would not recognise him. When his turn came, however, to be

ushered into the royal presence, the king recognised him at once, and

asked him what he could do for him. The merchant with great hesitation

related his case, and the king, being a very thoughtful man, feared that

he would hurt the dignity of one so respectable as the merchant if he

gave him pecuniary assistance before so many people. So he requested him

to wait till all had left the court, and then going into his private

apartments he ordered a water-melon to be brought to him, in which he

made a hole, and pouring out its contents, he filled it with gold coins.

Then summoning the merchant before him, he gave him the melon and said:

“Take this to your family, it is a refreshing fruit, and you will all

enjoy it this hot day.” The merchant thanked the king and returned

homeward very much grieved at receiving only a water-melon when he

expected something more substantial. As he was walking along on his way

home, he met two travellers, who were very thirsty and looked wistfully

at the melon he was carrying, and, being of a very generous disposition

and thinking that they needed the melon more than he did, he gave it to

them and walked quickly home empty-handed.



After passing many months of privation and misery, he was persuaded by

his wife to go to the king a second time, in the hope of better luck. The

king was, however, much surprised at the merchant’s paying him a second

visit so soon after the first; but when he heard that he was as poor as

before, he thought he had invested in trade the money he had given him

and lost it. He therefore filled a water-melon once more with gold coins

and presented it to him. The merchant was again disappointed at being

sent away with such a trifle, but he nevertheless made his obeisance to

the king and returned homewards. This time, however, he resolved not to

part with the fruit, knowing that it would be welcome to his starving

children. He had not gone very far, however, when he met a beggar who

asked alms of him, saying that he was very hungry. The merchant could not

resist this appeal, and, having no money, gave the melon to the beggar.



When he reached home his wife was sorely vexed at his bad luck, and

wondered very much why the king, who was reputed to be very charitable,

should treat her husband so shabbily as to send him away with a melon

every time he went into his presence. Being, however, of a persevering

nature, she once more persuaded him to go to court and ask the king for

help. He accordingly went there and stood in presence of the king as

before. But this time the king first asked him to explain what use he

had made of the two water-melons he had given him. The merchant related

how he had given the first to two travellers who were very thirsty, and

the second to a hungry beggar who asked him for alms. The king laughed

at the merchant for what he considered his folly, and told him what the

two melons contained. He then filled another water-melon with jewels in

the merchant’s presence, and gave it to him, admonishing him to be very

careful of it. The merchant went away rejoicing, full of hope that the

contents of the fruit would enable him to start in life anew. Now it

happened that as his house was situated on the other side of the river

which passed through the town he had to cross it, and in doing so his

foot slipped and the fruit fell into the water and was carried away by

the flood. The poor merchant wept over this misfortune, and returned

home, cursing his evil star.



He was now fully persuaded that it was the will of Iswara[275] that he

should remain poor; and, thinking it useless, therefore, to struggle

against Destiny, he resolved never to ask anybody for help again, but to

live as best he could till it should please Iswara that he should see

better days.



       *       *       *       *       *



To the same class, also, belongs No. 104 of the selection of monkish

Latin Stories edited by Thomas Wright for the Percy Society, of which

this is a translation:



There were two blind men in the Roman state. One of them daily cried

through the town: “He is well helped whom the Lord wills to help.” The

other exclaimed: “He is well helped whom the emperor wills to help.” When

they had said this very often, daily, and the emperor had frequently

heard it, he caused a cake to be made and many talents to be put into

it, and ordered this cake filled with talents to be given to the blind

man [who said that he was well helped whom the emperor helped]. Having

received it, and feeling the cake heavy, and meeting the other blind man,

he sold him the cake for his children. He who bought the cake, coming

home and breaking it, finding it full of money, gave thanks to God, and

for the rest of his life ceased to beg. But the other continued to be as

formerly, and the emperor called him, and said to him: “Where is the cake

which I ordered to be given you yesterday?” He replied: “I sold it for

a trifle to my companion, because I thought it was raw.” “Truly,” said

the emperor, “he is well helped whom God helps!” And he turned away and

refused to aid the blind beggar.



A similar story is told by Gower in his _Confessio Amantis_, Book v, only

here the emperor causes two pasties to be made, into one of which he

puts some florins and into the other a capon, and the beggars exchange

pasties. Another analogue is found in _Past Days in India_ (London:

1874), pp. 169-171, where two _fakírs_ (Hindú religious mendicants) are

among the crowd at a grand royal festival, one of whom, to flatter the

king, bawls out: “Kings have all sublunary power, and they give to whom

they please; what, then, can the Ruler of Destiny do?” The other, an

honest fellow, rebuked him, saying: “When the Ruler of Destiny gives,

what can the greatest king do?” With limes in place of pasties, the

result is the same as in Gower’s story.[276]





HISTORY OF FARRUKHRÚZ



This most entertaining little romance, which all readers would wish

longer, may be considered as exemplifying—if we can allow ourselves to

suppose such strange occurrences to be possible—the adage that “it is

better to be born lucky than rich.” Unlike most heroes of romance, the

troubles of Farrukhrúz are comparatively few and of very brief duration;

and even while he is in tribulation we feel confident that he will

presently emerge from it, being so evidently a favourite of Fortune.

Several of the incidents in the tale are peculiarly interesting to

comparative “storiologists.”





_The Ungrateful Brothers_—pp. 149-152.



The diabolical treatment of Farrukhrúz by his two brothers was probably

adapted from the tale of “The Witch Shamsah and Táhir of Basra,” which

occurs in the Turkish story-book, _Al-Faraj ba’d al-Shiddah_, and of

which the following is the outline:



One day three jewels were brought to Harún er-Rashíd, who greatly admired

them, but his vazír, Fazl bin Rabí’, told him that a merchant of Basra,

called Táhir the dog-worshipper, possessed much finer ones. Táhir is

sent for, exhibits his thirty unequalled jewels, protests that he is

a good Mussulman, but admits that he has two dogs well cared for, and

then proceeds to relate his history: His father ’Asim had left a wealthy

estate to him and his two brothers, who soon squander their shares and

become destitute. He has pity for them and takes them with him on a

trading voyage. While he slept on deck, they threw him overboard. He

escapes on a plank and is cast ashore on the island of Gang, where he

finds his two brothers. They trump up a charge against him before the

king, to whom they had made a present of his favourite slave-girl, and he

is thrown into a dark pit, where he meets with a youth who is also the

victim of a treacherous brother, and whose sweetheart rescues them both.

Wandering forth, they fall in with a caravan, and here again Táhir meets

his brothers, who leave him wounded and almost dead on the road, where

he is found by a princess, who has his wounds dressed, and takes him to

her father’s palace. She is Kamar al-Bahr, the daughter of the king of

Gang, and falls in love with him. They are betrayed to the king, who is

about to slay them, but makes them over to his vazír, who puts them in a

boat. They fall in with pirates, who take the princess and leave Táhir in

the boat, which they send adrift. The pirates fight over their prize and

kill each other, all but one, whom the princess contrives to get rid of

by poison. Táhir, drifting in his boat is picked up by a passing ship,

where once more he finds his rascally brothers. They wish to put him to

death, but are persuaded to hand him over to the king of Iram, an island

on which they land.[277] There the two brothers find the princess of

Gang and present her to the king, who immediately becomes madly enamoured

of her, but she will not yield to his desires. Then he tries to terrify

her into submission by slaying a prisoner before her eyes, who happens

to be none other than Táhir. The king was raising his sword to cut off

his head but gave way to her entreaties and released him. By the advice

and with the help of a kind officer, Táhir crosses the sea to Jazíra-i

Firdaus,[278] the realm of the mighty sorceress Shamsah, where he finds

a paradise indeed, and enters a magnificent but untenanted palace.

Suddenly he hears an awful sound, and a dragon appears and ascends the

throne. It then changes into an old woman—Shamsah herself. She hears his

story, takes pity on him, and sends with him an innumerable host of wild

beasts to the conquest of Iram. He returns victorious to pay homage to

Shamsah, who gives him his beloved princess in marriage and along with

her a string of thirty jewels, and two magic vials of green and red oil,

one having the virtue of changing men into beasts, the other that of

restoring them to their natural shape. After a while Táhir returns with

his wife to Basra, whither he is soon followed by his two brothers, whom

he changes to dogs.—At the intercession of the Khalíf Harún er-Rashíd,

Táhir consents to forgive his brothers and restores them to their human

form.



       *       *       *       *       *



If the idea of the ungrateful conduct of the two brothers towards

Farrukhrúz was derived from the foregoing tale of Táhir, the latter

in its turn, seems to have been adapted from the story of the

dog-worshipping merchant of Nishapúr, in the Persian _Kissa-i Chehár

Darvesh_, of which the _Bagh o Bahár_ is a modern Urdú version, and

in the latter we find the story told at very considerable length and

with more details and incidents than in the Turkish version, while

all that relates to the sorcerer Shamsah is peculiar to the latter.

It would occupy too much space, in view of what remains to be said

regarding other tales in our collection, to give even the outline of

the Persian original, but it may be mentioned that in place of the two

wicked brothers being changed to dogs they are confined in cages; while

the merchant’s dog, who had often saved his life when attempted by his

brothers, and continued faithful to him through all his vicissitudes,

is adorned with a collar set with priceless rubies and attended by two

slaves—the merchant thereby indicating, so to say, his approval of the

aphorism of the ancient Hindú sage, that “a grateful dog is better than

an ungrateful man.”—In our tale, it will be observed, the two wicked

brothers do not reappear after they cut Farrukhrúz adrift.





_The Three Expeditions_—p. 154 ff.



It is a very usual occurrence in folk-tales, as well as in tales of

more elaborate construction, for the hero, after becoming the king’s

chief favourite, to be the mark for the shafts of envy and malice.

Plots are laid in order to bring about his destruction, and, commonly

through the suggestions of his enviers, the king is induced to despatch

him on most perilous adventures—almost invariably three in succession,

as in our little romance. Sometimes it is the hero’s brothers who are

envious of his good fortune and thus seek to cause his death; sometimes

a courtier whom he has supplanted in the king’s favour and patronage.

We have examples of both kinds of enviers in Geldart’s _Folk-Lore of

Modern Greece_, an entertaining collection, as well as useful to such as

are interested in the study of popular fictions. Thus, in the tale of

“Constantes and the Dragon,” the hero’s elder brother is jealous of his

favour with the king, and it is at his suggestion that Constantes is sent

to procure for the king (1) the Dragon’s diamond ring; (2) the Dragon’s

horse and bell; (3) the very Dragon himself. And in the tale of “Little

John, the Widow’s Son,” the hero, thus styled, becomes the king’s

hunter, and one day kills (1) a wild beast, whose skin was all covered

with precious gems. The king shows this treasure to his courtiers,

who declare they have seen nothing like it under heaven. The vazír,

however, says the skin is all very well, but if the king had the bones of

elephants to build a church with, all the kings of the earth would come

to admire it, and the skin as well. So the young hero is despatched to

procure (2) a sufficient quantity of elephants’ bones to build a church

with, and returns successful. He is then sent, at the suggestion of the

vazír, to bring the Dragon’s daughter to the king, in which, of course,

he also succeeds, and thus the vazír’s malice comes all to naught.



We have three examples from Sweden in _Thorpe’s Yule-Tide Stories_. In

No. I of “The Boy that stole the Giant’s Treasures” a peasant dies and

leaves his small property to his three sons. The two elder (as in the

story of the merchant of Nishapúr in the _Chehár Darvesh_, referred

to, page 495) take all that was valuable, leaving the youngest an old

split kneading-trough for his share. The lads all enter the service of a

king—the youngest helps in the royal kitchen and is liked by everybody.

His two elder brothers are envious of him and induce the king to send

him (1) for the Troll’s seven silver ducks; (2) his gold and silver

bed-quilt; and (3) his golden harp.[279]—In No. II three brothers set out

in quest of their fortune, and the two elder obtain employment as helpers

in the royal stables, while the youngest is taken as page to the king’s

young son. His brothers are sorely nettled at his preferment, and consult

how they might compass his disgrace. They tell the king of a wonderful

golden lantern that shed light over both land and water, and add that

it ill beseemed a king to lack so precious a treasure. The king asks,

excitedly, where this lamp is to be found and who could procure it for

him. The brothers reply: “No one can do that, unless it be our brother

Pinkel. He knows best where the lantern is to be found.” So the king

despatches Pinkel to get him the golden lantern, promising to make him

the chief person at court should he bring it. Pinkel goes off and returns

in safety with the (1) lantern; and the king made him the chief person at

court, as he had promised. The brothers, hearing of his success, become

more envious than before, and at their suggestion the king sends him to

procure (2) the beautiful goat that had horns of the purest gold, from

which little gold bells were suspended, which gave forth a pleasing sound

whenever the animal moved; and next (3) the Troll-crone’s fur cloak,

that shone like the brightest gold, and was worked with golden threads

in every seam; after which the king gave him his daughter in marriage,

and he thus became heir to the kingdom, but his brothers continued to be

helpers in the royal stable as long as they lived.—In No. III two poor

lads roam about the country in search of a livelihood. At length the

younger is received by the king among his pages, but the elder goes about

begging as before: through the influence of his brother, however, he is

shortly taken into the king’s service as a stable-boy. The elder brother

is continually thinking of how he might get the younger disgraced. One

day when the king visits his stables he praises a favourite horse, upon

which the stable-lad tells him that he knows of a golden horse that

excels all horses in the world, but only his brother could procure it. In

brief, the hero procures for the king (1) the golden horse; (2) the moon

lantern; and (3) a princess who had been enchanted.



In No. 8 of M. Legrand’s _Contes Populaires Grecs_ (Paris, 1881) the

hero, at the suggestion of the Beardless Man, is sent by the king (1)

for the ivory chamber; (2) for the nightingale and wall swallow; and (3)

for the belle of the world.—And in M. Renè Basset’s _Contes Populaires

Berbères_ (Paris, 1887), No. 27, the hero is despatched by the king, at

the instigation of his enemies, to procure (1) the coral tree; (2) the

palm tree of the wild beasts; (3) the woman with silver attire; and, of

course, returns successful from each perilous expedition. M. Renè Basset

in his Notes, pp. 163-166, refers to several parallels or analogues from

Brittany, Lorraine, the West Highlands of Scotland, etc.



A story from Salsette, entitled “Karne da Pequeno João,” by Geo. Fr.

D’Penha, in the _Indian Antiquary_, 1888, p. 327 ff., is full of interest

to folk-lorists, apart from its connection with the “envious brothers”

cycle: Three brothers, of whom Little John, the youngest, is as usual

the only clever one, set out to seek their fortunes. They rest for the

night in the abode of an ogre, who resolves to kill them while they are

asleep and eat all three for breakfast. The ogre has three daughters,

and he puts white caps on them and red caps on the youths. The two

elder brothers are soon fast asleep, not so Little John. He suspects

mischief is brewing, and changes caps with the ogre’s daughters, who are

consequently killed by their father in mistake for the three lads. Little

John rouses his two brothers and they cross the river, which the ogre

cannot do, being unable to swim. In the morning the ogre sees them, and

cries out that he will make John pay for it yet! They take service with a

king: John is made a shepherd, the others are given places of trust. John

puts on one of the caps (he had taken all of them with him) on his head

and begins to play on his pipe, whereupon all the sheep begin to caper

and dance. The princess sees this, and gets the cap from him, and so on

till she has got the sixth, on the promise of her love. The king, at the

instigation of the princess, pays John better wages, and his brothers are

envious of his good fortune. Soon after this the king falls ill, and the

two elder brothers suggest to him that John should be sent to fetch (1)

the ogre’s parrot. John manages to carry off the bird, and the ogre cries

after him that he’ll make him pay for it yet! But John says he’ll come

again. In short, John afterwards procures (2) the ogre’s mare; (3) his

diamond ring; (4) his sword; (5) his blanket; and (6) the ogre himself.

After each expedition John is promoted to a still higher station till he

is made vazír and finally marries the princess. He does not punish his

brothers, the good young man, but raises them to high offices of state.



In many instances, as in the case of Farrukhrúz, the hero is assisted

by fairies or other superhuman beings, but with the means by which the

seemingly impossible tasks are accomplished we have no present concern

and so I have passed them over. The third and last expedition of

Farrukhrúz, suggested by the envious vazírs of the king of Yaman—who was,

like the monarchs of Eastern fictions generally, a credulous blockhead—by

which they made sure to cause the death of the favourite, but which

ended so disastrously for themselves—thus illustrating the saying that

“he who digs a pit for another,” and so forth: the proverb is somewhat

musty—namely,





_The Expedition to Paradise (p. 183 ff.)_



has its close parallel in the Kalmuk _Relations of Siddhí Kúr_,[280]

which form the first part of Miss Busk’s _Sagas from the Far East_, a

work chiefly derived from Jülg’s German translation. In Miss Busk’s

book, the story is No. VIII and entitled “How Ananda the Woodcarver and

Ananda the Painter strove together,” and, pruned of some redundancies of

language, this is how it goes:



Long ago there lived two men, a wood-carver and a painter, both named

Ananda. While they appeared to be on very friendly terms, in reality

jealousy reigned in their hearts. One day the painter presented himself

before the Khán, and told him that his father of blessed memory had

been re-born in the kingdom of the gods, in proof of which he handed

the Khán a letter, forged by himself, which stated such to be the fact,

and directed the Khán to send forthwith Ananda the Woodcarver to the

kingdom of the gods, to adorn with his cunning a temple which he was

building—“the way and means of his coming shall be explained by Ananda

the Painter.” The Khán, believing all this to be true, at once sent for

the Woodcarver, informed him of his father the late Khán’s message, and

commanded him to prepare forthwith to depart for the kingdom of the gods.

The Woodcarver knew that this was the device of the Painter, and resolved

to meet craft with craft, but, dissembling his feelings, asked by what

means he was to win thither. Hereupon the Khán sent for the Painter, and

ordered him to declare the way and manner of the journey to the kingdom

of the gods. The Painter replied, addressing the Woodcarver: “When thou

hast collected all the materials and instruments appertaining to thy

calling, and hast gathered them at thy feet, thou shalt order a pile of

beams of wood well steeped in spirit distilled from sesame grain to be

heaped around thee. Then, to the accompaniment of every solemn-sounding

instrument, kindle the pile, and rise to the gods’ kingdom, borne on the

obedient clouds of smoke as on a swift charger.”



The Woodcarver durst not refuse the Khán’s behest, but obtained an

interval of seven days in order to collect the materials and implements

of his calling, and also to devise some plan of avenging himself upon

the Painter. Returning home he consulted with his wife, who proposed a

means of evading while seeming to obey the Khán’s command. In a field

belonging to her husband, not far from the house, she caused a large flat

stone to be laid, on which the sacrifice was to be consummated, and, at

night, beneath it she had an underground passage made communicating with

the house. And when the eighth day came, the Khán and all the people

were assembled round the pile of wood steeped in spirit distilled from

sesame grain in the Woodcarver’s field, and in the midst of it stood the

Woodcarver, calm and impassable, while all kinds of musical instruments

sent forth their solemn-sounding tones. And when the smoke began to rise

in concealing density, the Woodcarver pushed aside the stone with his

feet and returned to his house by the underground passage. The Painter,

never doubting but that he must have fallen a prey to the flames, rubbed

his hands, and, pointing to the curling smoke, cried to the people:

“Behold the spirit of Ananda the Woodcarver ascending to the kingdom of

the gods!” And all the people, believing him, echoed his words.



For the space of a whole month the Woodcarver remained secluded in his

house, daily washing his face with milk and keeping out of the sunshine.

Then his wife brought him a garment of white gauze, with which he covered

himself, and, taking with him a letter which he had forged, he went into

the presence of the Khán, who when he saw him said: “Thou art returned

from the kingdom of the gods—how didst thou leave my father?” Then he

gave the forged letter to the Khán, who caused it to be read aloud to the

people. The letter stated that the Woodcarver had executed the sculptures

well, but it was necessary that they should send thither Ananda the

Painter, in order that they should be suitably decorated. When the Khán

heard this letter read he was overjoyed, and he loaded the Woodcarver

with rich presents. And then he sent for Ananda the Painter, and told

him how his father in the kingdom of the gods required his services. On

hearing this the Painter was seized with great fear, but when he looked

at the Woodcarver, all white and radiant from the milk-washing, and clad

in celestial raiment, as if the light of the gods’ kingdom yet clove to

him, and that the fire had not burnt him, neither should it burn himself;

moreover, if he refused to go, death must be his portion, while if he

went he should, like the Woodcarver, also receive great wealth on his

return. So he consented to have his gear in readiness in seven days. And

when the prescribed day arrived, the Khán, in his robes of state, and

attended by his ministers and officers, and all the people assembled in

the Painter’s field, where was a great pile of wood steeped as before in

spirit, and in the midst of it they placed the Painter; and, amidst the

sound of all sorts of musical instruments, they set fire to the pile. At

first the Painter bore the torture, expecting to rise on the clouds of

smoke, but soon the extreme pain caused him to shout to the people to

come and release him. But the sound of the music—his own device to drown

the cries of the Woodcarver—prevailed against him: no one could hear his

cries, and he perished miserably in the flames.



       *       *       *       *       *



This story is doubtless of Buddhist extraction; but it is not very

probable that our author was indebted to any Mongolian version such as

the foregoing for the materials of the tale he has told so well, in which

he represents the vile complotters against the life of Farrukhrúz as

crying out for mercy when they saw the awful doom they had brought upon

themselves, and the silly King of Yaman as still firm in the belief that

they should really go to Paradise and return in safety with his beatified

ancestors’ grand presents.



       *       *       *       *       *



As a pendant, I may reproduce, from Professor Basil Hall Chamberlain’s

interesting collection of _Aino Folk-Tales_, privately printed for the

Folk-Lore Society, 1888, the story of “The Wicked Wizard Punished” (No.

XXV):



One day a wizard told a man whom he knew that if any one were to climb

a certain mountain-peak and jump off on to the belt of clouds below,

he would be able to ride about on them as on a horse and see the whole

world. Trusting in this, the man did as the wizard had told him, and in

very truth was enabled to ride about on the clouds. He visited the whole

world in this manner, and brought back a map which he had drawn of the

whole world, both of men and gods. On arriving back at the mountain-peak

in Aino-land, he stepped off the cloud on to the mountain, and,

descending to the valley, told the wizard how successful and delightful

the journey had been, and thanked him for the opportunity kindly granted

him of seeing sights so numerous and so strange. The wizard was overcome

with astonishment. For what he had told the other man was a lie—a wicked

lie, invented with the sole intention of causing his death, for he hated

him. Nevertheless, seeing that what he had simply meant for an idle tale

was apparently an actual fact, he decided to see the world himself in

this easy fashion. So, ascending the mountain-peak, and seeing a belt

of clouds a short way below, he jumped off on to it, but was instantly

dashed to pieces in the valley below. That night the god of the mountain

appeared to the good man in a dream, and said: “The wizard has met with

the death which his fraud and folly deserved. You I kept from hurt,

because you are a good man. So when, obedient to the wizard’s advice,

you leapt off on to the cloud I bore you up, and showed you the world to

make you a wiser man. Let all men learn from this how wickedness leads to

condign punishment!”



       *       *       *       *       *



Such a tale as this is not at all likely to have been invented by a race

so low in the scale of humanity as the Ainos; and we must, I think,

consider it as one of the tales and legends which they derived from the

Japanese. As it is, the story presents a remarkable general resemblance

to the Mongolian tale of the Woodcarver and the Painter, of which one

might almost say it is a reflection or an adaptation.





THE KING AND HIS FOUR MINISTERS.



Under the title of “Strike, but Hear,” a considerably abridged and

modified version of this Tale is given in the Rev. Lal Behári Day’s

_Folk-Tales of Bengal_ (London: Macmillan & Co., 1883), of which this is

the substance:



A king appoints his three sons to patrol in turn the streets of his

capital during the night. It happens that the youngest prince in going

his rounds one night sees a very beautiful woman issuing from the palace,

and he asks to know what business she is bent upon at such an hour.

She replies: “I am the guardian deity of this palace. The king will be

killed this night, and therefore I am going away.” The prince persuades

the goddess to return into the palace and await the event. He enters his

father’s bed-chamber and discovers a huge cobra near the royal couch,

and at once cuts the deadly snake into many pieces, which he puts into

a brass vessel that was in the room. Then seeing that some drops of the

serpent’s blood had fallen on his step-mother’s bosom, he wraps a piece

of cloth round his tongue to protect it from the poison, and licks off

the blood. The lady awakes, and recognises him as he is leaving the room.

She accuses him to the king of having used an unpardonable freedom with

her. In the morning the king sends for his eldest son and asks him: “If

a trusted servant should prove faithless, how should he be punished?”

The prince replies: “Surely his head should be parted from his body.

But before doing so, you should ascertain whether the man is actually

guilty.” And then he proceeds to relate the





_Story of the Woman who knew the Language of Animals_.



There was in former times a goldsmith who had a grown-up son, whose wife

was acquainted with the language of animals, but she kept secret from her

husband and all others the fact of her being endowed with such a rare

gift. It happened one night that she heard a jackal exclaim: “There is a

dead body floating on the river; would that some one might give me that

body to eat, and for his pains take the diamond ring from the finger of

that dead man.” The woman arose from her bed and went to the bank of the

river, and her husband, who had not been asleep, got up and followed her

unobserved. She went into the water, drew the corpse on to the land, and,

being unable to loose the ring from the dead man’s finger, which had

swelled, she bit off the finger, and, leaving the corpse on the bank of

the river, returned home, whither she had been preceded by her husband.

Almost petrified by fear, the young goldsmith concluded from what he had

seen that his wife was not a human being but a _rákshasí_; and early in

the morning he hastened to his father and related the whole affair to

him—how the woman had got up during the night and gone to the river, out

of which she dragged a dead body on to the land, and was busy devouring

it when he ran home in horror at the loathsome sight. The old man was

greatly shocked, and advised his son to take his wife on some pretext

into the forest, and leave her there to be destroyed by wild beasts. So

the husband caused the woman to get herself ready to go on a visit to

her parents, and after a hasty breakfast they set out. In going through

a dense _jangal_, where the goldsmith purposed abandoning his wife, she

heard a serpent cry: “O passenger, I pray thee to seize and give me that

croaking frog, and take for thy reward the gold and precious stones

concealed in yonder hole.” The woman at once seized the frog and threw it

towards the serpent, and then began digging into the ground with a stick.

Her husband quaked with fear, thinking that his ghúl-wife was about to

kill him; but she called to him, saying: “My dear husband, gather up all

the gold and precious gems.” Approaching the spot with hesitation, he was

surprised to perceive an immense treasure laid bare by his wife, who then

explained to him how she had learned of it from the snake that lay coiled

up near them, whose language she understood. Then said he to his wife:

“It is now so late that we cannot reach your father’s house before dark,

and we might be slain by wild beasts. Let us therefore return home.” So

they retraced their steps, and approaching the house, the goldsmith said

to his wife: “Do you, my dear, go in by the back door, while I enter by

the front and show my father all this treasure.” The woman accordingly

went in by the back door and was met by her father-in-law, who, on seeing

her, concluded that she had killed and devoured his son, and striking

her on the head with a hammer which he happened to have in his hand she

instantly fell down dead. Just then the son came into the room, but it

was too late.



“I have told your majesty this story,” adds the eldest prince, “in order

that, before putting the man to death, you should make sure that he is

guilty.”



The king then calls his second son, and asks him the same question as he

had asked his brother, to which he replies by relating the





_Story of the King and his Faithful Horse_.



Once a king while engaged in the chase was separated from his attendants,

and seeing what he conceived to be rain-water dropping from the branch of

a tree, being very thirsty, he held his drinking-cup under it until it

was nearly filled, and as he was about to put it to his lips his horse

purposely moved so as to cause the contents to be spilled on the ground,

upon which the king in a rage drew his sword and killed the faithful

animal. But afterwards discovering that what he had taken for rain-water

was poison that dropped from a cobra in the tree, his grief knew no

bounds.



Calling his third son, the king asks him what should be done to the man

who proved false to his trust, and the prince tells the





_Story of the Wonderful Fruit_



which bestowed perennial youth on him who ate of it, with some

unimportant variations from the same story in our Romance.



Then the youngest prince explained the occasion of his presence in the

royal bed-chamber, and how he had saved the king and his consort from the

cobra’s deadly bite. And his majesty, overjoyed and full of gratitude,

strained his faithful son to his heart, and ever afterwards cherished and

loved him with all a father’s love.



       *       *       *       *       *



Another version is orally current in Kashmír, and, under the title of

“The Four Princes,” a translation of it is given by the Rev. J. Hinton

Knowles in his excellent collection, _Folk-Tales of Kashmír_, from which

are extracted the following details:



Four clever and handsome young princes are hated by their step-mother,

who persuades her husband the king to cease his personal and secret

inspection of the city and adjacent towns and villages—which had long

been his custom, going about at night in disguise—and appoint his four

grown-up, idle sons to the duties. But still the queen is jealous

of them, and poisons the king’s mind against them, so that he speaks

harshly to his worthy sons, without any apparent cause. One night the

four princes met together and discussed the altered conduct of the king

towards them, and the three younger proposed that they should privily

quit the country, but this was strenuously opposed by the eldest brother,

who suggested that they should rather take turn and patrol the city,

one of them each night, to which they agreed. It happened that the

eldest prince, in the course of his perambulation one night, came past

the hut of a Bráhman, whom he saw gazing out of the open window towards

the heavens, and presently heard him say to his wife that he had just

observed the king’s star obscured by another star, which indicated that

his majesty would die in seven days. His wife asked him how he should

die then, and he replied that a black snake would descend from the sky

on the seventh day, enter the royal bed-chamber by the door that opened

into the courtyard, and bite the king’s toe, thus causing his death.

Then the Bráhman made a sacrifice, and, after prayers and incantations,

he told his wife farther, that the king’s life would be saved if one of

his relations dug pits in the courtyard on the east side of the palace,

filled some with water and the others with milk, and scattered flowers

on the ground between the ponds and the door of the king’s room. He must

be ready, sword in hand, outside the door at the appointed time, when

the snake will come and swim across the ponds and pass over the flowers,

after which it will become comparatively harmless. Then he must strike

and slay the snake with his sword, and taking some of its warm blood

smear it over the king’s toes—thus will he be preserved from evil. The

prince, having treasured these directions in his memory, on the seventh

day follows them exactly, and having taken some of the snake’s blood,

gently opens the door of the king’s chamber and enters, having first tied

a bandage over his eyes, that he should not see the queen. But being thus

blindfolded he smears the blood on the queen’s toes instead of those

of the king, which causes her to awake, and to shriek on seeing a man

glide out of the room, which awakes the king, who recognises his eldest

son as the intruder. The queen, on discovering the blood on her feet

concludes that it was a rákshasa, and becomes frantic with fright, but

her husband sets her mind at rest by telling her that he is now assured

of the wickedness of his sons, who had employed a demon to destroy them

both, and he would have them all executed on the morrow, at which the

queen was highly delighted. Then the king causes the four princes to be

stripped of their royal robes and thrown into a dungeon. In the morning

they are brought into the presence of the king, who gives order for their

immediate execution, and they are being led away when one of them made

signs and prostrated himself before the throne, as if he wished to say

something. “Let him speak,” said the king. “Perhaps he wants to relieve

his heart of some foul secret—let him speak.” The prince then began to

relate the





_Story of the Merchant and his Faithful Dog_,



which differs materially from our story of the Hunter and his Dog (p.

206), but agrees with some versions current in various parts of India: A

young merchant meets four men who are quarrelling over the possession of

a poor dog, which they are dragging about most unmercifully. They tell

him it is not an ordinary dog, for their late father charged them not to

sell it for less than 20,000 rupís. He gives them the money and takes

the dog with him. By-and-by he loses all his wealth through a series of

unfortunate transactions, and borrows 15,000 rupís of another merchant

on the security of his dog. One night a gang of robbers break into the

merchant’s house and carry off all his valuables. They are followed

unobserved by the dog, who watches them dig a pit and bury the treasure

in it, intending to return and share their booty when they might do so

with safety. Next day the dog, by means of signs, leads the merchant to

the spot where his wealth was hidden, and when it is discovered, full

of gratitude to the faithful animal, he writes out an acquittance of the

young merchant’s loan, and having related the great service the dog had

done him expressed a wish to purchase the dog, for which he enclosed a

draft for 30,000 rupís, and putting the letter in the dog’s mouth, sends

him back to his master. As the dog is trotting along he meets his master,

who, concluding that he had run away, and that the merchant would quickly

follow, determined to kill the animal, and if the merchant should come,

he would say: “Give me back my dog, and I will return the money.” But

when he had killed his dog and was about to take the carcase up, in order

to conceal it, the letter dropped from his mouth, and the young merchant,

stricken with remorse, fell down insensible.



Another of the princes then steps forward and relates the





_Story of the Woman who knew the Language of Animals_,



which does not differ very much from the same tale in the Bengalí

collection, cited on p. 505, above, excepting that in place of a

goldsmith the husband is a _shikárí_, or hunter; it is a bracelet set

with five precious stones, not a diamond ring that the woman takes off

the corpse in the river, and a crow, not a serpent, that tells of the

treasure underground; and it is her father-in-law, not her husband, who

accompanies her, and it is her husband who kills her when she comes home,

thinking that she had devoured his father.



The youngest prince next makes his obeisance to his majesty and obtains

leave to relate the





_Story of the King and his Falcon_,



which is similar to that of the King and his Faithful Horse in the

Bengalí version: The king is about to drink of some water he had drawn

from a spring, when his falcon dashed the cup out of his hand, whereupon

the thirsty and enraged king drew his sword and killed his favourite

bird. Afterwards a huge and deadly snake was found coiled up at the head

of the spring, and too late the king saw that the falcon had saved his

life.



His majesty having heard these stories, now began to suspect that his

wife had deceived him regarding his four sons, and when the eldest prince

had explained the whole affair, and shown the king the pits of water and

milk and the body of the serpent, he was fully reconciled to them, and

abdicating the throne in favour of his eldest son, and appointing the

others to be governors of provinces, he retired to the wilderness and

became a hermit.





_The Lost Camel_—p. 194.



Few stories are more widely spread than that of the Lost Camel, which

occurs in the opening of our romance. It was formerly, and perhaps is

still, reproduced in school-books as a reading exercise. Voltaire, in

chapter iii of _Zadig, ou la Destinée_, (the substance of which he is

said to have derived from Geuelette’s _Soirées Bretonnes_), gives a

version in which a lost palfrey and a she-dog are accurately described

by the “sage” from the traces they had left on the path over which they

passed.



The oldest known written form of the story of the Lost Camel is in the

great work of Mas’udí, the celebrated Arabian historian, ‘Meadows of Gold

and Mines of Gems,’ which has not yet been completely translated into

English.—In an Arabic MS. text of the _Alf Layla wa Layla_ (Thousand

and one Nights), brought from the East by Wortley Montague, and now in

the Bodleian Library, Oxford, it forms an incident in the tale of the

Sultan of Yaman’s Three Sons: After their father’s death the three royal

youths quarrel over the succession to the throne, and at length agree

to submit their respective claims to one of their father’s tributary

princes. On the road one of them remarks: “A camel has lately passed this

way, loaded with grain on one side and with sweetmeats on the other.”

The second observes: “And the camel is blind of one eye.” The third

adds: “And it has lost its tail.” The owner comes up to them, and on

hearing their description of his beast forces them to go with him before

the king of the country, to whom they explain how they discovered the

defects of the camel and its lading. In this form it also occurs in

the Turkish collection translated under the title of _Turkish_ Evening

Entertainments—see _ante_, p. 472—with the addition of a woman riding on

the back of the camel, she having got off the animal during a temporary

halt, and left her small footprints in the sand.



In a Siberian version three youths are met by a man, who asks them if

they have seen his camel, to which they reply by describing the colour

and peculiarities of the animal so exactly that he accuses them to the

prince of the country of having stolen it. “I have lost a camel, my

lord,” says he; “and when I met these three young men we saluted, and I

told them of my loss. One of these youths asked me: ‘Was thy camel of

a light colour?’ The second: ‘Was thy camel lame?’ And the third: ‘Was

thy camel not blind of an eye?’ I answered ‘Yes’ to their questions.

Now decide, my lord. It is evident that these young men have stolen my

camel.” Then the prince asked the eldest: “How did you know that the

camel was of a light colour?” He answered: “By some hairs which had

fallen on the ground when it rubbed itself against the trees.” The two

others gave answers similar to those in our version. Then said the prince

to the man: “Thy camel is lost; go and look for it.” So the stranger

mounted his horse and departed.[281]



       *       *       *       *       *



Captain (now Sir) Richard F. Burton, in his _Scinde, or the Unhappy

Valley_, vol. i, p. 142, thus describes how a _paggi_, or tracker,

sets about discovering a strayed camel: “He ties on his slippers with

packthread, winds his sheet tight round his waist, and squatting upon

the ground scrutinises the footprint before he starts, with all the air

of a connoisseur, making meanwhile his remarks aloud: ‘He is a little,

little camel—his feet are scarcely three parts grown—he treads lightly

with the off foreleg, and turns this toe in—his sole is scarred—he is

not laden—there he goes—there—there, he is off to the jungles of Shaykh

Radhan’.”





_The Hunter and his Dog_—p. 206.



A variant of this story is cited from a Cawnpore newspaper in the

_Asiatic Journal_, vol. xv (new series), Part II, October, 1834, p. 78,

which is to the following effect: A man named Dabí had a dog called

Bhyro, the faithful companion of his travels, who guarded his goods

from robbers while he slept. He wished to go to a distant part of the

country on a speculation in grain, but had not sufficient funds for this

purpose. After much cogitation he at length resolved to pledge his dog

for 1000 rupís, and when he applied to several persons was laughed at

for his folly; but a wealthy merchant named Dyarám gave the money, on

condition that it should be paid back within twelve months, taking the

dog Bhyro in pledge. When eleven months had passed the merchant began

to bewail the stupidity which had induced him to lend so large a sum on

so precarious a security. His relentings were, however, premature. One

dark and dreary night he was aroused from his slumbers by a great noise,

occasioned by the clashing of swords and the barking of Bhyro. A band

of armed men had entered the house with intent to plunder, but before

they could effect their purpose they had been observed by the faithful

Bhyro, who commenced an attack upon them. Before Dyarám could render

any assistance Bhyro had laid two of the robbers dead at his feet; a

third, on the approach of Dyarám, aimed a blow at his head, which was

prevented from taking effect by Bhyro seizing the ruffian by the throat

and laying him prostrate on the ground. After peace was restored Dyarám

congratulated himself on having received Bhyro in pledge for Dabí, by

which act he not only escaped being plundered, but in all probability

murdered. Next morning Dyarám called Bhyro, and, after caressing him,

said: “The service you rendered me last night is more than an equivalent

for the 1000 rupís I lent your master; go, faithful creature, I give you

a free discharge from your obligation as security for him.” Bhyro shook

his head in token that it was impossible for him to go until his master

returned; but Dyarám, comprehending his meaning, soon arranged matters,

by writing a statement of the circumstances, and giving a voucher for the

1000 rupís. This document he tied round Bhyro’s neck, which done, Bhyro

expressed his delight by leaping about in every direction, and, after

licking the hands of Dyarám, darted out of the house and set off in quest

of his master. While these scenes were transpiring in Dyarám’s house,

Dabí was not unmindful of the pledge he had left behind him, and, having

succeeded in his speculation, was returning with all haste to redeem it.

At his last stage homewards he was surprised to see Bhyro approaching

him with every demonstration of joy, but at sight of him Dabí’s rage was

kindled, and repulsing Bhyro as he fawned upon him he thus addressed

him: “O ungrateful wretch! is this the return you have made for my

kindness to you? and is this the manner in which you have established my

character for veracity? You remained faithful to your trust during eleven

months—could you not have held out for thirty short days? You have, by

your desertion from your post, entailed dishonour upon me, and for this

you shall die.” And, so saying, he drew his sword and slew him. After

having committed this deed, he observed a paper tied round Bhyro’s neck,

and having read it, his grief was indescribable. To atone in some measure

for his rash act, he caused poor Bhyro to be buried on the spot where he

fell, and a superb monument to be erected over his remains. To the grave

of Bhyro, even at the present day, resort natives who have been bitten by

dogs, they believing that the dust collected there, when applied to the

wounds, is an antidote for hydrophobia.



It will be observed, on comparison, that the chief difference between

this version and the Kashmírí story, cited in p. 509, is that in the

latter the dog does not venture to attack the robbers, but follows

them to the place where they conceal their plunder and next day leads

his temporary master to the spot, while in the foregoing the dog Bhyro

boldly flies at the rascals, and slays or disables three of them, thus

preserving the house from being robbed. The Tamil version has the dog’s

killing the paramour of the merchant’s wife in place of the robbery, and

the tragical catastrophe of the suicides of all the characters.



A version given from Oudh, by Mr. G. H. Roberts, of Sítápúr, in _Indian

Notes and Queries_, 1887, p. 150, agrees exactly with the Kashmírí story.





_The Bráhman’s Wife and the Mungús_—p. 211.



This story is of world-wide popularity, and the preceding tale of the

Hunter and his Faithful Dog must be considered as an off-shoot from it.

In this country the form in which it is generally known is the legend of

Llewellyn and his hound Gellert, which has been so finely versified by

Spencer. I have adduced many variants of the story in the Appendix to my

_Book of Sindibád_, and have treated it still more fully in my _Popular

Tales and Fictions_, vol. ii. pp. 166-186, where, besides versions found

in the _Sindibád_ cycle (including, of course, the European _Seven

Wise Masters_),[282] are given several Indian forms of the story, and

lastly the oldest known version, from the _Vinaya Pitaka_ of the Chinese

collection of Buddhist books, which, according to Dr. S. Beal—one of

the greatest living authorities on Chinese Buddhist literature—probably

dates from the time of Asoka’s Council, B.C. 230. But indeed the story

may be many thousands of years old, for there is no reason to suppose it

to be of Buddhist invention; and we need not be surprised should it be

discovered some day in an Egyptian papyrus.



This Tamil version is one of three known to me in which it is the mother,

not the father, who kills the faithful animal, the others being one

current in Ceylon, and one from the North-West Provinces, cited in a

very entertaining work entitled _Past Days in India_, and also in the

small collection of Indian tales appended by Vermieux to his _Hermit of

Mottee Jhurna_, second edition, p. 101; it is, moreover, singular in

representing the woman as destroying herself and her husband then killing

his little son and afterwards himself—tragic incidents added by the

author probably to enable the supposed narrator to more forcibly impress

on the king’s mind the terrible consequences of acting in affairs of

moment with inconsiderateness and precipitation.



Among the Malays the story is told in this manner: A man left a tame bear

in charge of his house and of his sleeping child while he was absent from

home. On his return he missed the child and found the house in great

disorder, as if some desperate struggle had taken place, and the floor

was smeared with blood. Hastily concluding that the bear had killed his

child, the enraged father slew the animal with his spear, but almost

immediately afterwards found the carcase of a tiger, which the faithful

bear had defeated and killed, and the child emerged unharmed from the

jangal, where it had taken refuge.





_The Faithless Wife and the Ungrateful Blind Man_—p. 215.



Two very bad characters, and the less my readers have to do with such,

the better for their own peace of mind, I trow!—There is a tale in the

_Kathá Sarit Ságara_ of a woman who cruelly abandoned her helpless

husband in the _jangal_, and went off with a lusty young fellow, but I

am unable to say in which chapter of that most valuable and entertaining

collection it occurs, though I made a special search for it.



As a set-off to the faithless wife of the blind man—who afterwards

proves to be himself an arrant scoundrel—read the touching address of

Damayanti to her husband the ruined Rájá Nala, when he proposes in the

_jangal_ that she should return to her parents and leave him to his fate:

“O king, thinking of thy purpose, my heart trembleth, and all my limbs

become faint. How can I go, leaving thee in the lone woods, despoiled of

thy kingdom and deprived of thy wealth, thyself without a garment on,

and worn with hunger and toil? When, in the deep woods, fatigued and

afflicted with hunger, thou thinkest of thy former bliss, I will, O great

monarch, soothe thy weariness. In every sorrow, there is no medicine

equal unto the wife, say the physicians. It is the truth, O Nala, that I

speak unto thee!”[283]



       *       *       *       *       *



A story somewhat resembling the incident of the blind man and the honest

Setti will be found in the notes on the ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ, under the

heading of ‘The Bráhman and the Lion.’





_The Wonderful Mango Fruit_—p. 220.



Analogues of this story are found in a Canarese collection entitled

_Kathá Manjarí_, with a magpie in place of a parrot as the bearer of

the youth-renewing fruit, and in the _Tútí Náma_ (or Parrot-Book) of

Nakhshabí, a work written A.D. 1329, which has not yet been completely

translated into English, and is now generally known from Káderi’s

abridgment.



Fruits having the property of restoring the youth and vigour of those who

ate of them figure in many Asiatic stories—there is a notable instance in

the opening of the Indian collection entitled _Sinhasana Dwatrinsati_,

or Thirty-two (Tales) of a Throne. And from the East the notion was

introduced into the European mediæval romances; for example, in the

_Boke of Duke Huon of Burdeux_, “at the bidding of an angel,” I quote

from Mr. Sydney L. Lee’s notes to his edition of the work printed for

the Early English Text Society, “Huon gathers three of the Apples of

Youth, each of which when eaten by a man of eighty or a hundred years old

transforms him to a young man of thirty. Huon bestows one of the apples

on the admiral of Tauris and his white hair and beard grow yellow as he

eats it, and he suddenly becomes a youth of strength and beauty. The

second is eaten by the abbot of Cluny, who is 114 years old, with similar

results. The third rejuvenates Thierry, emperor of Germany.”





_The Poisoned Food_—p. 226.



This is the third instance in the romance of food being poisoned by

serpents, and it is of very common occurrence in Eastern fictions. The

oldest known form of the story is found in a Sanskrit collection entitled

_Vetálapanchavinsati_, or Twenty-five (Tales) of a Vetála, or Vampyre,

which is given fully in the Appendix to my _Book of Sindibád_, and the

story occurs in all the Eastern texts of the Sindibád cycle. This Tamil

version is peculiar in representing an old man as falling a victim to

the poison dropped from a snake’s mouth into food given him by a young

pilgrim, and the imprisoning of the latter in the village temple of Kálí

and so forth. In all other versions known to me, the poison is dropped

into an open dish of milk carried by a slave-girl on her head, and her

master’s guests, partaking of the milk, all perish.





_The Rescued Snake_—p. 231.



With an important difference, this tale resembles that of the Bráhman

and the Lion, p. 254, which is a variant of the world-wide fable of the

Hunter and the Serpent—the difference being that in this case the snake

ultimately rewards its rescuer. In the story of Nala and Damayanti, the

rájá rescues a snake from a _jangal_ fire and carries it some distance

and is about to set it down when the snake says: “Carry me ten steps

farther, and count them as you go.” So Nala proceeds, counting the

steps—one, two, three; and when he says “ten” (Sansk. _dasa_, which means

“bite” as well as “ten”) the snake takes him at his word and bites the

rájá on the forehead, upon which he becomes black. But this the snake

does for Nala’s own benefit, that he should not be recognised in his

degradation.





THE ROSE OF BAKÁWALÍ.



In the Introduction to the present collection will be found the few

particulars which are known regarding this romance and its original

Persian author. There is, I think, strong evidence of its being of Hindú

extraction. In the absence of any similar work in Sanskrit or one of

the vernacular languages of India, we can only suppose that the author

of the _Gul-i Bakáwalí_ drew his materials from various and more or

less distinct, or separate, fictions; and this supposition seems fully

borne out by the somewhat loose arrangement of the later incidents.

The narrative down to the end of the sixth chapter (p. 315), as I have

divided it, is complete in itself: the Prince wins at backgammon the

immense wealth of Dilbar, and her own person besides; he is married to

the beauteous damsel Mahmúda; he procures the magical Rose; he has a

splendid palace erected for him by the fairies, becomes reconciled to

his father, and puts his false brothers to shame; and after a number of

wondrous adventures is united to the fairy Bakáwalí, and “passed his time

with these rosy-lipped beauties, immersed in a sea of bliss.” Surely

this is the usual conclusion of a romance, and all that follows was an

afterthought. It is, of course, quite in keeping with “the fitness of

things” romantic that the hero should have to undergo some tribulation

before becoming possessed of Bakáwalí; but that fairy’s subsequent

punishment by the deity Indra; the hero’s marriage with the princess

Chitrawat; the re-birth of Bakáwalí—which, as I have already remarked,

is quite out of place in a Muslim work, though very proper in a Hindú

story; and the love-affair of Bahrám are evidently incidents which have

been taken out of different tales, albeit we should be sorry to have them

omitted, for they are all very entertaining.





THE MAGICAL FLOWER—p. 242.



The quest of a wonderful flower, or other object, having the virtue

of restoring sight to the blind, or of bestowing perennial youth, or

of bringing back the dying to life and health, is the theme of many

folk-tales. Besides the magical Rose from the garden of the fairy

Bakáwalí, which cured the king’s blindness (p. 271), we have another

instance in the romantic adventures of Hatim Taï (_ante_, p. 467), in

the case of the blind man confined in a cage; and in the same work—but

not mentioned in my epitome of it—we are told that in the course of

Hatim’s Second Adventure he came to the capital of Mahparí, the king of

the fairies, and learned that his son had become blind. Hatim tries the

effect of his talisman on the eyes of the young prince, and it removes

the pain, but not the blindness. He is then informed that there is a tree

that grows amidst the shades of Zulmát [or region of darkness, where

is also the Water of Life], which is named Nandar; and from this tree

distils a liquid of such rare virtue that if even a drop of it could be

procured it would be the means of restoring the prince’s sight. A fairy

in love with Hatim gives him a guard of seven thousand troops, and he

at once sets out on his dangerous journey. Having arrived in the region

of darkness, Hatim takes some of the wondrous liquid, and returning

in safety applies a few drops to the prince’s eyes, when his sight is

immediately restored.



The myth of the Water of Life is of ancient date, and it was probably

introduced into Europe from the East during the Crusades. In Rabbinical

lore it is said that Solomon sent one of his officers for the Water of

Immortality, but when he returned successful the sage monarch would

have none of it, because he did not wish to survive all his female

favourites! According to the Muslim legend, Alexander despatched the

mythical prophet Al-Khizar on a similar errand, but no sooner had he

drank of the water than it disappeared, and this is how Al-Khizar

possesses everlasting youth.



A Fountain of Youth figures prominently in the _fabliau_ which chants the

delights of the Land of Cockaigne; and in Conrad of Wartzburg’s _Trojan

War_ (of the 13th century) Medea obtains water from Paradise to renew

the youth of Jason’s father. In the romance of _Huon of Bordeaux_, the

doughty hero finds the Fount of Youth on Alexander’s Rock, and bathing in

it is at once restored to vigorous health.



The quest of the Rose in the garden of Bakáwalí, to cure the king’s

blindness, finds an analogue in the German tale of the Water of Life,

in the collection of the Brothers Grimm—indeed, they are very closely

allied: A king is sick unto death. The first and the second of his sons

set out in succession to procure for him the Water of Life, but they

behave rudely to a dwarf on the road and he enchants them. The third

son next undertakes the adventure, and meeting the dwarf is civil and

courteous towards him, and in reward the dwarf directs the youth on

his way. Following all the instructions of the dwarf, he comes to a

castle, which he enters, unhurt by the two lions at the gate. In one

room he finds a number of knights in a trance, and taking the rings off

their fingers he puts them on his own. Going into another room he sees

on a table a sword and a loaf, which he also takes. In a third room he

discovers a beautiful damsel on a couch, who welcomes him joyfully, and

says that he should have the kingdom if he would free her from the spell

by which she is bound, and come back in a year and marry her. Returning

homeward, the dwarf tells him that the sword would at a single blow slay

a whole army, and the bread would never fail him. But the brave youth

will not go home without his brothers, and so the dwarf sets them free.

While the three brothers are sailing in a ship, the two elder substitute

for the Water of Life a bottle of sea water, which makes the king worse

when he drinks some of it. Then the two elder brothers give him the real

water and he is cured. But in the end, as in our Tale, the hero turns the

tables on his brethren and marries the princess.



Readers of the _Arabian Nights_ will recollect that Prince Ahmed is

required by his father, at the suggestion of an envious vazír, to get him

some water from the Lion’s Spring, and his bride, the Parí Bánú, directs

him how to win past the lions, and so forth. There can be little doubt

that both the German and the Arabian stories have a common origin. Again,

in the tale of the Envious Sisters, with which our ordinary English

version of the _Arabian Nights_ concludes, the Fountain of Golden Water

has the property of disenchanting all the princes and nobles who had been

turned to stone.—But it were tedious to farther multiply examples.





THE PRINCE AND DILBAR PLAYING BACKGAMMON—p. 250.



From the most remote times of which any records have been preserved,

wine, music, dancing, and _dice_ seem to have gone together in the

East. The ancient Arabs were passionately addicted to gaming, till

Muhammed strictly forbade all games of chance; a prohibition which—like

that against wine-bibbing—has not been so strictly observed by all his

followers, though Muslims are not, perhaps, so much given to gambling as

most other Asiatic peoples. They are excessively fond of chess, which,

however, cannot be included amongst games of pure chance. Of all races,

the Chinese are probably the most inveterate gamblers: they will play at

hazard till they have lost all their possessions, wives, and children,

and finally their own freedom. In our own country the mania for dice-play

was fatally common among the upper and middle classes until within

comparatively recent years, and if all stories be true, gaming with cards

or dice, though forbidden by law, is still only too prevalent, to the

speedy ruin of the deluded votaries of the Goddess of Chance. For it

would appear that, though some gamesters may win and others of course

lose, yet nobody is ever a gainer in the end, and hence we must conclude

that _all_ the winnings go to—the Devil!



The Hindús have always been infatuated gamesters, and of this we have

ample evidence in the noble Indian epic, the _Mahábhárata_, out of which

one or two notable examples may suffice. In the Second Book (_Sabha

Parva_—Effort Chapter), sections lix-lxvi, Yudhisthira, the eldest of

the Pandavas, plays at dice with Shakuni, who by foul means[284] wins

all his wealth, then his kingdom, then his brothers one by one, then

Yudhisthira himself, and finally his spouse Draupadi. In the Third Book

(_Vana Parva_—Forest Chapter), sections lix-lxi, Rájá Nala, infatuated

by Kálí, who had possessed him, plays at dice with his brother Pushkara

and loses his wealth and his kingdom, but refusing to stake his sweet

queen Damayanti he goes accompanied by her into exile. Ultimately, having

exchanged with Vahuka his skill in dice-play for his own wonderful

knowledge of horses, Nala plays again with his brother and wins back his

kingdom.[285]



European fiction furnishes analogous incidents to those above cited. For

example, in the mediæval romance of _Guerni de Monglave_, the hero loses

his kingdom at a game of chess. In W. Harrison Ainsworth’s novel (or

“romance”) of _Old Saint Paul’s_, in the chapter entitled “The Bully and

the Gamester” the latter, after losing all his money, is induced to stake

his wife on a “cast of the ivories”—and his opponent wins. In Prior’s

_Danish Ballads_, ‘Sir Thor and the Maiden Silvermor,’ vol. iii, p.

151 ff., a damsel stakes her own person on a single throw of dice, and

loses.—Other instances occur in the early European romances.



       *       *       *       *       *



In the latter portion of “All for a Pansa,” in the Rev. J. Hinton

Knowles’ _Folk-Tales of Kashmír_, we have a pretty close parallel to the

incident of the Prince and Dilbar at the game of nard, or backgammon, but

a very ancient version is found in the following Panjábí legend,[286]

which recounts





How Rájá Rasálú Played at Chess With Rájá Sirikap For Their Heads.



News was once brought to King Rasálú that at Kot Bhitaur on the Indus

lived a certain Rájá, Sirikap by name, who was notorious for his

ferocity, and renowned for his skill in chess-playing. King Sirikap

only played with those who would accept his conditions, which were: In

the first game the stakes were to be horse, clothes, and lands. In the

second game the stake was to be the loser’s head. King Rasálú, who could

not bear the thought of a rival in anything, resolved to visit him. So

he called his captains together and said: “I am going to try my luck

against King Sirikap. But if I lose the game and forfeit my head, say,

what will you, my followers, do?” One of the officers answered: “You may

lose the game, and you may lose your head, O king, but one thing is very

certain—if you lose your head, the head of Rájá Sirikap will be forfeited

too. Of this he shall be certified.”



Then the king mounted his horse and rode to Kot Bhitaur, the castle of

the “handsome” Sirikap the Beheader. King Sirikap welcomed his brother

king with every demonstration of affection, and conducted him into his

palace. “O youth,” said he, “you must have come from a long distance.

What is the purpose of your visit?” “My kingdom is Siálkot,” answered

Rasálú. “Your fame as a chess-player kindled my ambition, and I have

come to play with you; only, as I am now fatigued, let us play, if it

please you, to night.” To this Sirikap agreed, and King Rasálú, having

refreshed himself, descended from the mountain rock on which the castle

stood, and walked to the bank of the river. There he saw struggling in

the water some small clusters of ants which were being washed away, and

stooping down he saved them. Then he saw a drowning hedgehog, and, being

a humane man, he saved it also, and one of the attendants begged for it

to amuse the servants in the castle above. Going a few steps farther, he

came to a breakwater, which was close to the castle-rock, and there he

heard a voice proceeding from the cliff: “O sir, you have come to Kot

Bhitaur to play at chess with Rájá Sirikap. But I warn you that he is a

magician.” The astonished attendants looked about them and cried: “What

voice is this?” but they perceived no one. Then they saw on the sand a

representation of the game, well figured, and they said to the king: “O

king—see, here is the game. It is an omen of good fortune. This is your

conquering day.” At this moment the mysterious voice again issued from

the rock: “O prince—for such I perceive you to be—I have been witness of

your humanity. To you I may confide my life, being satisfied that you

will not betray me. Rájá Sirikap is a man of blood—deep, sudden, and

treacherous; but observe what I say, and your life will be saved.” “Speak

on, O hidden one,” answered King Rasálú. “First of all,” continued the

voice, “do you walk along the bank until you see a rat with a black head.

Catch him and bring him here.” The king obeyed, and returning to the

crag he said: “The rat, O friend, I have found, as you said, but now I

would find you.” Climbing up the ledges of the steep rocks, he came to a

roughly-fashioned cell in the face of the cliff, in which he discovered

a lady of noble birth, chained by her feet to the floor. “Who are you?”

said he; “and whence came you here?” She answered him: “I am one of the

five daughters of King Sirikap. My fault was one which I will not reveal

to you now, but my punishment is imprisonment in this rocky cell. Yet I

knew, by my power of divination, that a prince would come from a distant

kingdom, strong and young, and that, having cut off my father’s head, he

would release me. In you I behold the prince of my prophetic dreams.”

“And I will release you,” cried the king; “but first inform me how I am

to be conqueror at the chess-board.”



The princess then gave him full instructions how he should proceed in the

trial of skill which awaited him. “First of all,” said she, “play with

the king only on a Tuesday, as to-day; and, secondly, play only once,

and let the stake be the head of him who loses. You will proceed thus:

Tie the rat with a string, and keep him near you, as you both sit on the

floor, but keep him so that he may be visible. That King Sirikap may not

suspect your design, lean your cheek upon your hand, and call out now

and then: ‘O Rájá Núl! O Rájá Núl!’ for he was the inventor of the game

of Chaupúr,[287] in which you will be engaged. There are two sets of men

of eight pieces each, and they are of two different colours. Now at the

critical point of the game Rájá Sirikap will give a certain signal, and

straightway from his capacious sleeve will issue his magic cat. On her

head she bears a light which renders her invisible, and which is also

invisible to all but the king himself. The effect of the mysterious light

is to throw a glamour over the king’s adversary and to dazzle his eyes,

so that he is unable to see, and during this interval the cat dexterously

disposes the pieces in such a way that at the next move King Sirikap wins

the game, and his adversary forfeits his wager. But do you, O Prince, in

order to guard against surprise, keep the rat secure, and now and then

put your disengaged hand upon it, and now and then take it off, patting

it playfully. The moment the cat comes forth she will make a dash at the

rat, and, coming in contact with your hand, the light will fall to the

ground. Then keep her at bay, and the game will be yours for the cowardly

heart of King Sirikap will begin to quake, and his disordered mind will

ensure his discomfiture.”



Having received his instructions, King Rasálú returned to the palace, and

that night, being the eve of Tuesday, the two kings sat down to play. The

issue of the game for some time was doubtful; but at last it was evident

that a few more moves would decide the result in favour of Rájá Rasálú;

when his rival made a secret signal, and the magic cat, unseen by any

but himself, stole from his sleeve. The moment she did so she caught

sight of the black-headed rat, and, forgetting her duty to her master,

she instantly sprang towards it, but the hand of Rájá Rasálú, chanced to

smite the light from her head and to keep her occupied until he had won

the game.



Then sprang the mighty king to his feet and cried to his trembling rival:

“The game is won and your head is my prize”; and drawing his long sword

he was about to strike off his head, when Sirikap, lifting up his hands,

implored a short respite, that he might enter his inner apartments and

bid farewell to his family. That moment a messenger brought news to him

that his queen had been delivered of a daughter. But he heeded it not.

His perturbed soul was full of schemes as to how he might escape his

impending fate. As he walked sadly from room to room, he said to himself:

“If I hide in my own chambers I shall be discovered.” So this idea he

dismissed from his mind. But in an unfrequented corner his anxious eye

caught sight of a large disused drum, and, disregarding his kingly

dignity, he crept under that, and began to feel himself a little secure.



Rájá Rasálú was meanwhile pacing the hall with impatient strides, waiting

for the return of his adversary. At last he could tarry no longer, so,

calling his captains, he summoned King Sirikap to appear. But no answer

was made to his call. He then began a careful search of the whole of the

castle, feeling satisfied that the king could not have passed his guards

who were on the watch at every post. When he came to the drum, the quick

eye of Rasálú detected that it had been recently moved. “Aha!” cried he,

“the caitiff must be skulking here,” and in another moment he dragged

the dishonoured monarch forth by the heels. Then he handed him over to

his officers. “As he was a king,” said he, “lodge him in his own palace,

but guard him well, for at sunset he must die.” Then turning to Sirikap,

he spurned him, saying: “O villain! hundreds of heads you have smitten

off in your time with your own hand, and all for pastime, yet you never

grieved or shed a tear. And now, when the same fate is to be your own,

you sneak away and hide yourself in a drum.”



Some time after this there entered the royal soothsayers, and they,

addressing their fallen master, said: “Sir, we have sought for the

interpretation of this mystery, why ruin should have visited your house,

and we conclude that all this calamity is on account of your daughter,

whose baneful star has crossed your own. She has come in an evil hour.

Let her now be slain, and let her head be thrown into the Indus, and your

life will be saved.” Sirikap answered: “If my life depends on her, bring

me her head, and mine may yet be saved.” So a slave-girl was despatched

to bring the infant to its father. And as she carried it along from the

apartments of the queen she said: “O what a pretty child! I should like

to save it.” Rájá Rasálú, overhearing her, said: “Whither are you taking

that child?” The slave-girl answered: “This is Rájá Sirikap’s child, born

only this very night. The Bráhman soothsayers have told my master that

his child is the cause of all his misfortunes, and that her head is to be

taken off to save his own.” When Rájá Rasálú looked at the child he loved

it, and became very sorrowful, knowing the power of divination. So he

returned and said: “O Rájá Sirikap, your head shall be spared on certain

conditions: First, you must surrender this infant princess in betrothal

to me. Secondly, you must become my vassal and pay me an annual tribute.

Thirdly, you must consent to have your forehead branded with a red hot

iron, in token of your vassalage. And fourthly, you must discontinue your

bloody games at chess.” To all these conditions King Sirikap was only too

glad to agree. So a treaty was drawn up between the two kings, and it was

confirmed and ratified in the presence of their principal officers.



After this Rájá Rasálú mounted his horse and was riding away when he

thought of the princess in her lonely cell. Turning his horse’s head, he

sought the foot of the cliff and ascended to the cavern. “Of course,”

cried she, when she saw him, “you have won the game? But tell me, have

you cut off my father’s head?” “No,” said he, “I have not.” “What!”

replied she, “have you beaten your antagonist in the game of death, yet

not exacted the penalty of his failure? What luckless man are you?”

Then King Rasálú explained to the princess all the circumstances of

his adventure. “But,” concluded he, “one thing I omitted, namely, to

stipulate for your deliverance from captivity.”



The princess, who expected no less than to be espoused to this handsome

stranger, was overcome with distress. Seeing this, the king, who pitied

her misfortunes, took up a piece of rock and broke her chain, and then,

lifting her over his shoulder, he descended with her from the cavern, and

carried her up to the palace of Rájá Sirikap, her father, who, seeing

company returning and fearing some new calamity, once more endeavoured

to conceal himself. But King Rasálú reassured him, and brought him

forth, and said to him: “Behold, here is your daughter;—now say for what

crime was she imprisoned?” “A certain prince,” answered Sirikap, “came

to play with me, and my rebellious daughter gave him, to sit upon, my

fortunate carpet of state. ‘Aha,’ said I to myself, ‘so, my lady, there’s

treason afloat?’ upon which I ordered her to be perpetually chained and

imprisoned.” “One more condition,” said Rájá Rasálú, with a stern air,

“must be added to the others; it is, that you forgive her, and that you

let me know within three months that you have made a suitable match for

her.” Nor could Rájá Sirikap dare to dispute his new lord’s will, but he

received his daughter and provided suitably for her in accordance with

his pledged word.



Once more King Rasálú mounted his charger, and at the head of his brave

companions, whose lance-heads glittered in the sunlight, and whose

accoutrements clashed merrily, he rode proudly away to his own capital.

With him, in a magnificent litter, travelled the infant daughter of

Sirikap, whose name was Kokilan.[288] She it was, who, in after years,

when she grew to woman’s estate, became his beautiful but ill-fated

consort.[289]



       *       *       *       *       *



It is not likely that our author adapted his story of the Prince and

Dilbar the courtesan from the foregoing legend of Rájá Rasálú: the fact

that a similar tale is current in Kashmír, as already mentioned, would

seem to indicate that, in more or less different forms, it is known in

various countries of Hindústán. But the Prince’s game with Dilbar, mainly

to rescue his brothers who had fallen into her toils, finds a curious

analogue in the mediæval European romance which recounts the adventures

of four brothers, Agravain, Gueret, Galheret, and Gauvain, all of whom

set out, in different directions, in quest of Lancelot du Lac, according

to the analysis given by Dunlop, in his _History of Fiction_: Agravain,

as a _coup d’essai_, kills Druas, a formidable giant, but is in turn

vanquished by Sorneham, the brother of Druas. His life is spared at the

request of the conqueror's niece, and he is confined in a dungeon, where

his preserver secretly brings him refreshments. Gueret also concludes a

variety of adventures by engaging Sorneham, and being overcome is shut

up in the same dungeon with his brother. Galheret, the third of the

fraternity, comes to a castle where he is invited to play with the lady

at chess, on the condition that if he wins he is to possess her person

and castle, but losing, should become her slave. The chessmen are ranged

in compartments on the floor of a fine hall, are as large as life, and

glitter with gold and diamonds. Each of them is a fairy and moves on

being touched with a talisman. Galheret loses the game, and is confined

with a number of other checkmated wights. Gauvain, however, soon after

arrives, and vanquishes the lady at her own arms; but only asks the

freedom of the prisoners, among whom he finds his brother. Having learned

from an elfish attendant of the lady the fate of his two other brothers,

he equips himself in the array of the chess-king. In this garb he engages

Sorneham, who, being dazzled with the brightness of his attire, is

easily conquered, by which means Agravain and Gueret are delivered from

confinement.





_The Bráhman and the Lion_—p. 254.



There are few fables more widely spread than this, certainly in various

forms, but always with the same result. In another work I have adduced a

number of versions European and Asiatic,[290] and shall content myself

with citing in this place a rather unique version from Mrs. Meer Hasan

Ali’s _Observations on the Mussulmans of India_, vol. ii, p. 330ff.:



A certain man is travelling on horseback through an immense forest, and

observes fire consuming some bushes, in the centre of which is a great

snake, who implores the traveller to save him. The traveller throws down

his horse-bag and the snake creeps into it, and when the horseman takes

it up and releases the snake the latter is about to bite him, and so

forth. Having appealed to the _pípal_-tree and received the same answer

as that of the banyan in our version, the two meet a camel-driver, who

says the snake is right—it is “the way of the world” to return evil for

good, and tells his own story: “I was,” says he, “sole proprietor of a

very fine strong camel, by whose labour I earned a handsome livelihood,

in conveying goods, and sometimes travellers, from place to place, as

fortune served me. One day, returning home through an intricate wood, I

approached a poor blind man, who was seated on the ground lamenting his

hard fate. Hearing my camel’s feet advance he redoubled his cries of

distress, calling loud for help. He told me that he had been attacked by

robbers, and that his boy-guide had been forced from him and taken as a

slave. I seated him on my beast and proceeded with him to the city where

he said he resided. Arriving there, I offered to assist the poor man

to alight, but to my astonishment he began abusing me for my barefaced

wickedness, collected a crowd about us by his cries for help from his

persecutor, declared himself the master of the camel, and accused me of

attempting to rob him now, as I had done his brother before. Hearing this

plausible speech, the people dragged me before the judge, who sentenced

me to be thrust out of the city with threat of greater punishment should

I ever return. Therefore I say, the reward of good is evil.” The fox is

then appealed to with the usual result of leaving the ungrateful snake in

the flames, there “to fry in his own fat.”—This story of the camel-driver

is somewhat analogous to that of the Setti and the Blind Man—_ante_, p.

215ff.





_The Princess and the Dív who exchanged Sexes_—p. 279.



This droll story is of Hindú extraction, and in much the same form is

still current in Southern India. In the “Exposition” prefixed to the Abbé

Dubois’ French translation of the Tamil version of the _Panchatantra_, p.

15, it is given with a few unimportant variations: The name of the king

is Nihla-Kéton,[291] his country is called Anga-Dessa, and his capital,

Barty-Poura. His wife was long sterile, and after many vows and prayers

she at length gave birth to daughters only. Enraged at this, the king

tells his prime minister, Vahaca, that he purposes divorcing his wife

and taking another, and Vahaca tries to dissuade him from such a course.

When the queen is again pregnant the minister offers to take her to his

own house and treat her with every care, to which the king consents. The

queen once more gives birth to a girl, and the prime minister announces

it as a boy, greatly to the king’s delight. He fixes the twelfth day

for the _nama-carna_ (name-giving) and intimates his intention of being

present at the ceremony. But the minister bribes the _púhorita_, or royal

astrologer, to tell the king that in consequence of the unfavourable

aspect of his horoscope he must not see this child or allow it to be

produced in public until it is grown up and married, otherwise dire

calamities threaten both king and country. During 16 years the king

must have his child educated at a distance from the palace, and this is

undertaken by the prime minister. When the child is 15 the minister tells

the king that a wife must be sought out for “him,” and, taking the girl

with him, he leads an army against the city of Pattaly-Poura, and there

demands the king’s daughter as wife to the “son” of King Nihla-Kéton, the

marriage to take place in five days. These terms are accepted.—Meanwhile

a giant-Bráhman (_un géant Brahme_), whose abode is in a large tree in

the vicinity of the invading army, falls in love with the young princess,

and demands her of the prime minister, but Vahaca explains that she is

already betrothed, and therefore cannot be given to him. He then tells

the giant the whole story of the girl’s birth, the concealment of her

sex, and so forth, imploring his aid, and suggesting that he should

give the girl his sex and take hers for five or six nights, till the

wedding and its festivities be over. The good-natured giant consents and

exchanges sexes with the princess. The marriage is duly celebrated, soon

after which the minister, the metamorphosed prince, and the real princess

set out to return home. On the way they visit the giant, and the minister

asks him to resume his proper sex. But he replies that “a neighbouring

genie” had fallen in love with him, as a woman—and so on, as in our

story.



Here, it will be seen on comparing the two versions, the chief

differences are: the minister takes the place of the mother in deceiving

the king as to the sex of the child; the foreign king is compelled to

give his daughter in fear of an invading army; the minister prevails with

the “giant” to exchange sexes with the princess, who does not, as in

our story, go into the forest with the intention of destroying herself

from shame. But in respect of this last incident, we shall find that

our tale adheres more closely to the original than the Tamil version.

The story occurs in the “Udyoga Parva” (Effort Book—the fifth) of the

_Mahábhárata_, sections cxc-cxciii:





SANSKRIT ORIGINAL.



The first and best beloved wife of King Drupada had never borne him a

child, and the king paid his adorations to Siva for years, in order to

obtain the boon of a son. He practised the most austere penances, saying:

“Let a son, and not a daughter, be born unto me, O Mahádeva! I desire a

son, that I may revenge myself on Bhishma.” At length the great deity

said to him: “Thou shalt have a child who shall be female and male.

Desist, O king! It will not be otherwise.” Returning to his wife, he

informed her of this decision of the great Siva—that his child should be

first female and afterwards become male. In due time the wife of Drupada

gave birth to a daughter, in accordance with the decree of Destiny, and

she gave out that the child was a son. Then Drupada caused all the rites

for a male child to be performed in respect of that concealed daughter as

if she were really a son, and the child was named Sikhandin. And no man

in all Kámpilya, save Drupada himself, knew the real sex of the child.

Drupada bestowed great pains on the education of his child, teaching her

writing, and painting, and the like arts. And in arrows and weapons the

child became a disciple of Drona.



Then that royal couple fixed upon the daughter of Hiranyavarman, the

king of the Dasárnas for wife to Sikhandin. And he gave his daughter to

Sikhandin, who, after the marriage, returned to Kámpilya. The daughter

of Hiranyavarman soon came to know that Sikhandin was a woman like

herself, and bashfully informed her nurses and companions of the fact.

Then the nurses sent to the king and represented to him everything about

the imposture, upon which the king was filled with wrath. He was a

powerful monarch, with a great army, not easily to be overcome. And he

despatched a messenger to Drupada, who, taking the king aside, said to

him: “The king of the Dasárnas, O monarch, deceived by thee and wroth at

the insult that thou hast offered him, hath said these words unto thee:

‘Thou hast humiliated me! Without doubt, it was not wisely done by thee.

Thou didst, from folly, solicit my daughter for thy daughter! O wicked

one, reap now the consequence of that act of deception! I will now slay

thee, with all thy relatives and advisers!’” Thus addressed, Drupada,

like a thief caught in a net, could not at first speak. At length he sent

a sweet speech, saying: “This is not so,” in order to pacify the king of

the Dasárnas. But he was not thus to be pacified; and, after consulting

with his ministers, he again sent an envoy to Drupada, saying: “I will

slay thee!” Now King Drupada was not naturally courageous, and the

consciousness of his offence filled him with fear. He took counsel with

his wife as to how they might best escape the wrath of the king of the

Dasárnas, for he was already on the march against him with a large army.



Meanwhile Sikhandin, filled with grief, and saying to herself that it

was solely on her account that her parents were now in such tribulation,

resolved on putting an end to her own life. Having formed this

determination, she left home, full of heavy sorrow, and went into a dense

and solitary forest which was the haunt of a very powerful Yaksha, called

Sthunákarna. From fear of that Yaksha,[292] man never went into that

forest. And within it stood a mansion with high walls and a gateway,

plastered over with powdered earth, and rich with smoke bearing the

fragrance of fried paddy.[293] Entering that mansion, Sikhandin, the

daughter of Drupada, began to reduce herself by foregoing all food for

many days. Thereupon the Yaksha, who was endued with kindness, showed

himself unto her. And he enquired of her, saying: “For what object is

this endeavour of thine? I will accomplish it—tell me without delay.”

Thus asked, the maiden answered him, repeatedly saying: “Thou art unable

to accomplish it.” The Yaksha, however, rejoined: “I am a follower of

the Lord of Treasures [i.e. Kuvera]. I can grant boons, O princess! I

will grant thee even that which cannot be given! Tell me what thou hast

to say.” Thus assured, Sikhandin represented, in detail, everything that

had happened, unto that chief of Yakshas called Sthunákarna. And she

answered: “My father, O Yaksha, will soon meet with destruction. The

ruler of the Dasárnas marcheth against him in rage. That king cased in

golden mail is endued with great might and great courage. Therefore, O

Yaksha, save me, my mother, and my father! Indeed, thou hast already

pledged thyself to relieve my distress. Through thy grace, O Yaksha, I

would become a perfect man! As long as that king may not depart from my

city, so long, O great Yaksha, show me grace!” Hearing these words of

Sikhandin, that Yaksha, afflicted by Destiny, said, after reflection:

“Blessed lady, I will certainly do what thou wishest. Listen, however, to

the condition I make: For a certain period I will give thee my manhood.

Thou must, however, come back to me in due time. Pledge thyself to do

so. Possessed of immense power, I am a ranger of the skies, wandering

at pleasure, and capable of accomplishing whatever I wish. Through my

grace, save thy city and thy kinsmen wholly! I will bear thy womanhood,

O princess! Pledge thy troth to me, and I will do what is agreeable to

thee.” Sikhandin answered: “O holy one of excellent vows! I will give

thee back thy manhood. O wanderer of the night! bear thou my womanhood

for a short time. After the ruler of the Dasárnas has departed from my

city, I will once more become a maiden and thou wilt become a man.” Then

they both made a covenant, and imparted into each other’s body their

sexes. And the Yaksha became a female, while Sikhandin obtained the

blazing form of the Yaksha.



Then Sikhandin, having obtained manhood, entered his city in great joy

and approached his father, to whom he represented everything that had

happened; and Drupada became exceedingly glad, and, along with his

wife, recollected the words of the great Siva. And he forthwith sent a

messenger to the ruler of the Dasárnas, saying: “This my child _is_ a

male. Let it be believed by thee.” Meanwhile the ruler of the Dasárnas

had arrived at Kámpilya, and Drupada sent a messenger who was well versed

in the Vedas. But Hiranyavarman addressed the envoy in these words:

“Say unto that worst of kings: ‘O thou wicked of understanding! having

selected my daughter for the wife of thy daughter, thou shall to-day,

without doubt, behold the fruit of that deception.’” When the envoy

returned and delivered this message to Drupada, he despatched another

Bráhman learned in the Vedas to the ruler of the Dasárnas, who said to

him: “Hear, O king, the words of the ruler of the Pánchálas: ‘This my

child is really a male. Let it be made clear by means of witnesses.’”

Then the king of the Dasárnas sent a number of young ladies of great

beauty to ascertain whether Sikhandin was really a male or a female. And

those ladies, having ascertained the truth, joyfully told the king of

the Dasárnas that Sikhandin was a powerful person of the masculine sex.

Hearing this testimony, Hiranyavarman was filled with joy, and going to

his brother Drupada passed a few days with him in gladness. And the king,

rejoiced as he was, gave Sikhandin much wealth, many elephants, steeds,

and kine. And, worshipped by Drupada as long as he stayed, the Dasárna

king then departed, having rebuked his daughter. And after Hiranyavarman

had departed in joy and with his anger quelled, Sikhandin began to

rejoice exceedingly.



Meanwhile [some time after the exchange of sexes had taken place] Kuvera,

the protector of all the treasures, in the course of a journey came to

the house of Sthuna, the Yaksha, and admiring the garlands of flowers

with which it was bedecked, he asked his followers why it was that Sthuna

did not come out to greet him. And they told him how Sthuna had given his

own manhood to the daughter of Drupada, taking her womanhood in exchange,

and therefore he was ashamed to approach him. Hearing this, Kuvera caused

Sthuna to be brought before him; and Sthuna, wearing a feminine form,

came thither, and stood before him in shame. And Kuvera said: “Since,

humiliating all the Yakshas, thou hast, O thou of sinful deeds, given

away thy own sex to Sikhandin and taken from her, O thou wicked of

understanding, her womanhood—since, O wicked wretch, thou hast done what

hath never been done before by anybody;—therefore, from this day, thou

shalt remain a woman and she shall remain a man!” At these words all

the Yakshas attempted to mollify Kuvera for the sake of Sthuna, saying:

“Set a limit to thy curse!” Then the lord of the Yakshas said: “After

Sikhandin’s death, Sthuna will regain his own form. Therefore let this

high-souled Yaksha be freed from his anxiety.” Having said this, Kuvera

departed with his followers.



And Sthuna, with that curse denounced on him, continued to live there;

and when the time arrived, Sikhandin, without losing a moment, came to

that wanderer of the night. And approaching his presence he said: “I have

come to thee, O holy one!” Sthuna then repeatedly said unto him: “I am

pleased with thee!” Indeed, beholding that prince return to him without

guile, Sthuna told Sikhandin everything that had happened, adding: “O

son of a king, for thee have I been cursed by Kuvera. Go now, and live

happily amongst men, as thou choosest. Thy coming hither and the arrival

of Pulastya’s son [_i.e._ Kuvera] were, I think, both ordained from

beforehand. And this was incapable of being prevented.” Sikhandin then

returned to his city filled with joy.[294]



       *       *       *       *       *



It is evident that the Persian and the Tamil versions were not derived

directly from the story in the _Mahábhárata_, but from some modern

adaptation, since in both the good-natured dív has a very different

reason from that of the Yaksha Sthuna for retaining his adopted sex.

The chief features of the Sanskrit original are, however, reproduced

in the two variants, if we except the actual marriage of the princess,

the discovery of her sex, and her father’s cognisance of the whole

affair from the first, which do not appear in them.—The story is so

singular that I think it must be orally current in different countries

of India, as well as exist in collections in many of the vernacular

languages; and it would be interesting to see what farther modifications

it has undergone, especially in passing by word of mouth to successive

generations and from place to place.



       *       *       *       *       *



In M. Dozon’s _Contes Albanais_ No. 14 presents some analogy to the story

of the Exchange of Sexes. Here a man with three daughters and no sons

is called to the wars; he is old, and has no one to take his place. The

first and second daughters express their wish to be married—probably,

though it is not expressly stated, in order that one of their husbands

should go as the substitute for their aged father. But the youngest

assumes a man’s dress and goes to the wars in place of him, and slays

a lamia that had long made a feast on the people once every year, for

which she receives in reward a wonderful talking horse, through whose

cleverness she accomplishes a feat by which she wins a king’s daughter in

marriage. The princess, as in the Sanskrit story and in the well-known

Arabian tale, complains to her parents of the coldness of her “husband,”

and the king lays various snares in hopes of causing the destruction of

the disguised heroine, but her horse saves her from all of them. At

last the king sends her to “the church (_sic_) full of serpents,” to

demand payment of their arrears of tribute, hoping they would kill the

objectionable spouse of his daughter. The money is paid, however, but

the serpents, enraged at having to part with so much treasure, cry out:

“If thou art a girl, become a boy; if thou art a boy, become a girl,”

and there and then the heroine found herself actually changed into a

man; so the serpents thus did her a good turn, instead of the evil one

they intended.—M. Dozon, in his _rapprochements_, cites No. 58 of Hahn’s

collection of Greek popular tales, in which a man is first changed to a

girl, and afterwards, by a giant, back to a man again.





THE PRINCE OBTAINS A SNAKE-GEM—pp. 296, 297.



Precisely the same incident occurs in the Comte de Caylus’ interesting

collection of _Contes Orientaux_, with, strange to say, instead of a

snake, a black bull (“un taureau noir”), and the hero, “having been

brought up in the midst of jewels,” knew that the stone was a real

carbuncle, and it was of a size he had never before seen.[295]



I have already offered some remarks on the common belief in the East from

the most ancient times that serpents have precious stones in their heads

and are the guardians of treasures concealed in the earth (pp. 232 and

297), but the subject is so interesting as being a survival, or rather

relic, of serpent-worship, that I think the following observations by Mr.

M. J. Walhouse, the veteran scholar, in the _Indian Antiquary_ for 1875,

pp. 45, 46, may be reproduced here:



“In the Life of Apollonius Tyanæus [B.C. 3-A.D. 98] are some marvellous

stories of large Indian serpents, which the Indians are said to destroy

as follows: ‘They spread a silken robe, inwoven with golden letters,

before the entrance of the serpent’s cave, and those letters, being

magical, bring on sleep, so that the eyes of the serpent are overcome.

Then with powerful incantations they so allure it as to be able to cast

over it the magical robe, which induces sound sleep. Rushing in, the

Indians cut off its head with an iron axe and take out certain stones

found therein; for the heads of most serpents are said to contain

small stones, very beautiful and endowed with a peculiar lustre and

wonderful virtues. Such a stone was in the ring that Gyges is said to

have possessed.’ This is probably an exaggerated version of the Indian

snake-charming, and one of the earliest notices of it.… The American

Indian tribes believe that in the mountains is a secret valley, inhabited

by chiefs of the rattlesnake species, which grow to the size of large

trees and bear in their foreheads brilliant gems. In Peru is an animal

called carbunculo, which appears only at night. When pursued a valve

opens in its forehead, and a brilliant object becomes visible, dispelling

the darkness and dazzling the pursuers.”





THE PRINCE CONCEALS THE SNAKE-GEM IN HIS THIGH—p. 299.



This singular mode of concealing jewels—into which Asiatics still very

commonly convert their wealth—is said to have been formerly, and perhaps

is yet occasionally, adopted by travellers. We have another instance in

the story of the Young Man who fell in love with a Picture, which occurs

only in the Breslau printed Arabic text of the “Thousand and One Nights,”

where the hero has luckily some jewels in the flesh of his forearm.—And

in the _Toldoth Jeshu_ (already cited in connection with the conflict

between the white and black serpents—p. 475) is the following most

veracious narrative:



“Now at this time the unutterable Name[296] of God was engraved in the

temple on the corner-stone. For when King David dug the foundations he

found there a stone on which the Name of God was engraved, and he took

it and placed it in the Holy of Holies. But as the wise men feared lest

some ignorant youth should learn the Name and be able to destroy the

world—which God avert!—they made by magic two brazen lions, which they

set before the entrance of the Holy of Holies, one on the right, the

other on the left. Now if any one were to go within and learn the holy

Name, then the lions would begin to roar as he came out, so that from

alarm and bewilderment he would lose his presence of mind and forget the

Name.



“And Jeshu left Upper Galilee and came secretly to Jerusalem, and he

went into the Temple and learned there the holy writing; and after he

had written the incommunicable Name on parchment he uttered it, with

intent that he might feel no pain, and then he cut into his flesh and

hid the parchment with its inscription therein. Then he uttered the Name

once more, and made so that his flesh healed up again. And when he went

out at the door the lions roared and he forgot the Name. Therefore he

hasted outside the town, cut into his flesh, took the writing out, and

when he had sufficiently studied the signs he retained the Name in his

memory.”[297]



If there ever was a deliberately trumped-up story, this assuredly is

one—it is altogether absurd and inconsistent. When, I wonder, did King

David dig the foundation of the Temple? Moreover, the temple referred

to by this miserable, malignant scribbler was not that built by the

son of David, but the gorgeous pile erected by King Herod. But indeed

nothing more is needed to show that this idle tale was written for

one sole purpose than the words “lest some ignorant _youth_ should

learn the Name.” Why “some _youth_” only? Was there not any danger of

ignorant, or curious, or evil-minded grown men attempting to acquire

this knowledge?—Then we have the magic lions of brass that were placed

on either side of the entrance of the Holy of Holies! The only “graven

images” we read of as being in the Temple are the cherubim, whose wings

canopied the Ark. It is very evident that this most wretched tract—of

which it is said the Jews themselves are now ashamed—was written during

the later Middle Ages, when belief was so rife in magic images of metal

as guardians of treasure or of some other magical contrivance.



       *       *       *       *       *



The classical story is well known of Zeus, dreading the wrath of Hera

when Semele gave premature birth to Dionysus (Bacchus), sewing up

the infant in his thigh, where he came to maturity. And we have an

interesting example of the prevalence in India—_mutatis mutandis_—of

Greek and Roman legends, known to every schoolboy, in a folk-tale

contributed to the _Indian Antiquary_ for 1886, p. 367, by (Miss?)

Putlabi D. H. Wadia, in which seven brothers go on a trading voyage,

leaving their little sister, Sunábaí Jái, with their wives, who in their

absence ill-treat her shamefully and appoint her tasks very similar

to those which Venus gave Psyche to do, the last being to bring them

some sea-foam. The poor little maid goes to the shore, and observes her

brothers’ ship coming in, and runs to meet them. One of the brothers,

when she has told her story, cuts open his thigh and having placed

her inside the opening sews it up. When they reach home they ask for

their sister and the wives give an evasive reply, upon which they are

threatened with dire punishment should any accident have happened to the

little one, and the women having confessed their wickedness, the brother

draws Sunábaí Jái out of his thigh.



In the Tamil romance entitled _Madnakámarájankadai_, which has been

translated by my friend Pandit Natésa Sástrí, of Madras, under the title

of _Dravidian Nights Entertainments_, a prince one day sees the daughter

of Indra bathing in a tank, and having purloined her garment takes it

home, cuts open his thigh and puts the celestial robe inside, and then

sews the flesh together. The nymph, like others of the Bird-Maiden class,

had no resource but to follow the hero and become his wife.



From the East, doubtless, the idea was brought to Europe and utilised

in the romance of _Huon of Bordeaux_, where we read that the beard and

molars of the Saracen amír—the procuring of which was the condition of

the hero’s pardon by Charlemagne—were sewed up by Oberon, King of the

Fairies, in the side of Gerames, the uncle of Duke Huon.[298]





BAKÁWALÍ AT INDRA’S COURT—p. 317.



In the Kashmírí tale of Gullala Sháh (Mr. Knowles’ collection), a fair

princess, Panj Phúl, falls in love with the hero, and her father, when he

comes to know of this, transforms her to wood and causes her to be placed

in a public garden, as a warning to other fairy damsels not to bestow

their affections on human beings. Gullala Sháh, instructed by the vazír,

whose daughter he had already married, burns the wood, and pouring water

on the ashes, Panj Phúl, as in Bakáwalí’s case, is restored to life.





BAHRÁM TRANSFORMED INTO A BIRD—p. 346.



In No. 16 of the Burmese collection of tales entitled _Decisions of

the Princess Thoodhamma Tsari_—which has been translated into English

by Capt. T. P. Sparks (Maulmain, 1851), and again by Chr. J. Bandow

(Rangoon, 1881)—a youth is changed into a small parrot by a magic

thread being tied round his neck, and in that form is captured by some

bird-catchers in the king’s garden, and presented as a pet to the

princess, who discovers and removes the thread, when he becomes once

more a handsome young man. Early every morning the princess replaces the

thread and he is again changed to a parrot; at night she takes off the

thread; and thus she continues to amuse herself until the consequences

could not be any longer concealed, but in the sequel the youth is

publicly acknowledged as her husband.



       *       *       *       *       *



Sometimes the hero of a popular fiction has the power of transforming

himself into a bird or of quitting his own body and animating that of any

dead animal, as in Mr. Natésa Sástrí’s _Dravidian Nights Entertainments_,

pp. 8-18, and the idea is also known to European ballads and romances.

For instance, in Prior’s _Danish Ballads_, iii, 206, we are told how a

knight, to gain access to a lady’s bower, becomes a bird and flies in.

In his notes, Prior refers to the ballad of ‘The Earl of Mar’s Daughter’

(Buchan, i, 49):



    “I am a doo the live-lang day,

      A sprightly youth at night;

    This aye gars me appear mair fair

      In a fair maiden’s sight.”



He also refers to the Netherlandish ballad, ‘Vogelritter,’ where a knight

goes to Cyprus and wins the king’s daughter, whom he had previously

visited in the form of a bird, having in his possession a stone which

effects transformations; and to the ‘Lai d’Iwenec’, by Marie de France.





THE THREE DECEITFUL WOMEN—p. 355.



_Page 357_—The crafty mother of the bathman is said to have “practised

for years under the sorceress Shamsah”; probably the witch of the same

name who figures in the story of Táhir, an extract of which will be found

in pp. 494, 495.



       *       *       *       *       *



_Page 370_—The story of ‘The Sun and the Moon’ (_Mihr ú Máh_), which the

carpenter brags that he knows, is probably the Persian romance of Mihr,

the son of Káhvar Sháh, described in Dr. Rieu’s _Catalogue of Persian

Manuscripts in the British Museum_, vol. ii, p. 765 (Add. 15,099), which

also occurs in Hubbí’s collection, entitled _Hikáyát-i’Ajíb ú Gharíb_,

(already cited on p. 474), of which Dr. Rieu, in the same Catalogue (ii,

759, Or. 237), gives the titles of the first nineteen stories, No. 3

being _Mihr ú Máh_. Dr. Rieu has kindly furnished me with the first part

of this tale:



In the kingdom of the East was a mighty king named Khávar Sháh, who had

no son. He is told by his astrologers that he is predestined to have

a son, provided the mother be a parí (or fairy). On the advice of his

vazír, Rushan Ráï, he asks the help of a devotee called Faylasúf, who

tells him that he should obtain possession of the book of magic which

is kept by the witch Naskas in her castle. All three set out with this

intent, and by means of the Most Great Name (see _ante_, note on p. 163)

obtain entrance into the castle, and on their way release a dove from

its cage. Deceived by the wiles of the witch, they are transformed: the

king, into a lion, the vazír, into a lynx, and the devotee, into a fox;

but plunging into the waters of the Spring of Job, they are restored to

their natural shape, seek refuge in a hollow tree, and are taken out of

it by the bird Rukh (or roc) and carried to the top of a mountain. In the

meanwhile the released dove, who was no other than Rúz-afrúz, daughter

of Farrukhfál, king of the parís, returns to her parents and tells them

of her rescue. Then she goes in search of her deliverers; finds them

asleep, and has them conveyed to her father’s court. Farrukhfál waives

his objection to a marriage which he deemed a _mésalliance_, and the

result in due time is the birth of a prince, called Mihr. The astrologers

prophesy that at the age of eighteen grief will come to him through a

piece of paper. And, in fact, the young man, while out hunting, meets a

youth called Mukhtarí, a rich merchant from Maghrab, who has suffered

shipwreck and has saved nothing but the portrait of Máh, the fair

daughter of Hilál, king of the West. The remainder of the tale deals

with the adventures of the love-struck prince in search of the fair one,

ending, of course, with their happy union.[299]



       *       *       *       *       *



The tale of ‘Sayf ul-Mulúk and Bady’á ul-Jumál,’ which the carpenter

says he had also heard, occurs in the _Arabian Nights_; the Turkish

story-book _Al-Faraj ba’d al-Shiddah_, or Joy after Distress; the Persian

Tales translated into French by Petis de la Croix, under the title of

_Les Mille et un Jours_; and it also exists as a separate story in

MSS. preserved in the British Museum and the Bodleian Library, Oxford.

It recounts how a young prince discovers in his father’s treasury the

portrait of a very beautiful damsel and sets out in quest of her. After

many perilous adventures he finally learns from a jinni that the fair

original of the portrait was one of the concubines of King Solomon and

had, of course, been dead for many ages.



       *       *       *       *       *



Whether the ‘Road to the Mosque’, which the carpenter says he has

“seen,” be the title of a story, or (as is more likely) that of a

devotional work, I am unable to say, never having seen it alluded to

elsewhere.





_The Trick of the Kází’s Wife_



is a variant of a story found in the Beslau printed Arabic text of the

‘Thousand and One Nights,’ of the Fuller, his Wife, and the Trooper.

It also occurs in the _Historia Septem Sapientum Romæ_, the European

adaptation of the Book of Sindibád, where a crafty Knight of Hungary

plays the part of the carpenter of our story, and a jealous old baron

that of the Kází. The plot of the _Miles Gloriosus_ of Plautus, which

is very similar to the tale of the crafty Knight, in all likelihood

suggested to Boiardo the amusing episode, in his _Orlando Innamorato_,

of Folderico and Ordauro, which, in its turn, was perhaps adapted in the

_Seven Wise Masters_. In my _Book of Sindibád_, p. 343 ff., and in my

_Popular Tales and Fictions_, vol. ii, pp. 214-228, are most of the other

known versions and variants of this story.





_The Trick of the Bazár-Master’s Wife_



has many parallels in Eastern story-books, and the tale seems to have

been, time out of mind, a favourite with Asiatics. In one version there

is no game of _yad est_ between husband and wife. The lady has her lover

concealed in an adjoining apartment, for her husband has come home quite

unexpectedly. But she tells him plainly of the fact, upon which he

demands the key and approaches to open the door of the room, when the

lady bursts into laughter. He pauses in astonishment, and asks the cause

of her merriment, to which she replies: “I cannot help laughing at your

simplicity, in believing that I should have a lover in the next room, and

tell you of it.” The husband returns the key and goes away well pleased.





_The Trick of the Kutwál’s Wife_



resembles the latter part of the Arabian tale of the Fuller, his Wife,

and the Trooper, where the poor husband is also drugged, his hair

is cropped, he is dressed as a soldier, and provided with a letter

recommending him to be enrolled by the governor of Isfahán. In this case,

however, the poor husband is not reclaimed by his artful wife.



       *       *       *       *       *



Whatever may be the source of this diverting story, it was known in

France as early at least as the 13th century, in the form of _fabliau_

by Haisiau the Trouvère, under the title “Des Trois Dames qui trouverent

un Anel” (Méon’s edition of Barbazan, 1808, tome iii, p. 220ff., and Le

Grand, 1781, tome iv, pp. 163-166), of which the following is the outline:



Three ladies found a ring, and “they swore by Jesu that she should have

it who should best beguile her husband to do a good turn to her lover.”



The _First Lady_, having made her husband drunk, when he is asleep,

causes his head to be shaved, dresses him in the habit of a monk, and

carries him, assisted by her lover, to the entrance of a convent. When

he awakes and finds himself thus transformed he imagines that God, by a

miraculous exercise of his grace, had called him to the monastic life. So

he presents himself before the abbot and requests to be received among

the brethren. The lady hastens to the convent in well-feigned despair,

and is exhorted to be resigned and to congratulate her husband on the

saintly vow he has taken. “Many a good man,” says the poet, “has been

betrayed by woman and her harlotry. This one became a monk in the abbey,

where he remained a very long time. Wherefore, I counsel all people who

hear this story told, that they ought not to trust in their wives, or in

their households, if they have not first proved that they are full of

virtues. Many a man has been deceived by women and their treachery. This

one became a monk against right, who would never have been such in his

life, if his wife had not deceived him.”



The _Second Lady_ had some salted and smoked eels which her husband bade

her cook for dinner on a Friday, but there was no fire in the house.

Under the pretext of going to have them cooked on a neighbour’s fire, she

goes out and finds her lover, at whose house she remains a whole week. On

the following Friday, about the hour of dinner, she enters a neighbour’s

house and asks leave to cook her eels, saying that her husband is angry

with her for having no fire, and that she could not dare to go back lest

he should cut off her head. As soon as the eels are cooked she carries

them home, “piping hot.” The husband asks her where she has been for

the last week, and commences to beat her. She cries for help and the

neighbours come in, and amongst them the one at whose fire the eels had

been cooked, who swears that the wife had only just left her house,

and ridicules the man for his assertion that she had been away a whole

week. The poor husband gets into a great rage and is locked up for a

madman.[300]



The _Third Lady_ proposes to her lover to marry him, and he thinks that

she is merely jesting, seeing she is already married, but she assures

him that she is quite in earnest, and even undertakes that her husband

will give his consent. The lover is to come for her husband and take him

to the house of Dan Eustace, where he has a fair niece, whom the lover

is to pretend he wishes to espouse, if he will give her to him. The lady

will go thither, and she will have made her arrangements with Dan Eustace

before they arrive. Her husband cannot but believe that he has left her

at home, and she will be so apparelled that he cannot recognise her. This

plan is accordingly carried out. The lover asks the lady’s husband for

the hand of his niece in marriage, to which he very willingly consents,

and thus without knowing it makes him a present of his own wife. “All his

life long the lover possessed her, because the husband gave and did not

lend her; nor could he ever get her back.”[301]



“Now tell me true,” adds the poet, “without any lie, and if you would

judge rightly and truly, which one of these three best deserved to have

the ring?”



       *       *       *       *       *



Le Grand, at the end of his modern French prose abridgment of this

_fabliau_, says that it is told at great length in the tales of the

Sieur d’Ouville, tome iv, p. 255. In the _Facetiæ Bebelianæ_, p. 86,

three women make a wager as to which of them will play the best trick

on her husband. One causes her poor spouse to believe he is a monk, and

he goes and sings mass; the second husband believes that he is dead and

allows himself to be carried on a bier to that mass; and the third sings

in it stark naked, believing he is clothed. It is also found in the

_Convivales Sermones_, t. i, p. 200; in the _Délices de Verboquet_, p.

166; and in the Facetiæ of Lod. Doménichi, p. 172. In the _Contes pour

Rire_, p. 197, three women find a diamond, and the arbiter whom they

select promises it to her who concocts the best device for deceiving her

husband, but the _ruses_, according to Le Grand, are different from those

in the _fabliau_. Possibly from this last mentioned version (if not from

some old Morisco-Spanish tale, for the idea of the story is certainly

of Eastern origin) Isidro de Robles, a Spanish novelist, who wrote

about the year 1666, adapted his tale of ‘The Diamond Ring,’ of which

a translation is given by Roscoe in his _Spanish Novelists_, 1832, vol.

iii, pp. 163-214, and the outline of which is as follows:



In the fair city of Madrid there lived three ladies who were very

intimate friends. One was the wife of Luca Morena, cashier to a wealthy

Genoese merchant; the second was the wife of Diego de Morales, a painter,

employed in decorating one of the monasteries; the third was the wife

of Señor Geloso, an elderly ill-tempered curmudgeon. It happened one

day, when the three ladies were standing near a fountain to see a grand

public procession, that they simultaneously discovered a diamond ring

which glittered under the water, and when one of them took it up, all

three laid claim to it, on various grounds, and they squabbled for its

possession till one of them proposed they should submit the matter to

a count of their acquaintance whom they saw approaching, to which the

others agreed. The count takes charge of the ring and says that it should

be the prize of “whichever of you shall, within the space of the next

six weeks, succeed in playing off upon her husband the most clever and

ingenious trick—always having due regard to his honour.”



The _Cashier’s Wife_ employs an astrologer to waylay her husband on his

road home and tell him that he looks seriously ill; then to feel his

pulse and declare that he will be a dead man within 24 hours, so he had

better put his affairs in order. Somewhat alarmed, he reaches home, takes

little supper and goes to bed, but only to toss restlessly about all the

night. He is off to business earlier than usual next day, and coming home

in the evening meets the vicar of the parish and some friends, who are

also in the plot. They pretend not to see him, but talk to each other

aloud of Luca Moreno’s sudden death, and express very uncomplimentary

opinions as to his state in the other world. In great perplexity, he

continues his way and meets the astrologer and the painter (the latter

is the husband of the second lady, and, strange as it may seem, is also

a party in the plot), talking likewise of his death. He can endure this

no longer, and accosts them, saying that he is not dead, but they affect

to take him for his own ghost and run away. Now he thinks he must be

really dead, though when and how he died he cannot recollect. Arriving at

his house, he finds it shut up, and knocks long and loudly at the door

before the maidservant appears, who asks: “Who is it? You can’t come in,

for master is dead.” “Why,” exclaims the poor cashier, “it is I myself,

your master.” “Who calls at this hour? This is the house of mourning,

for we are all in grief for the loss of our master.” “Hold your tongue,

you jade, and let me in, for I am your master.” She replies that _he_,

poor man, is now engaged counting money in another and a worse world. In

his rage he bursts open the door and walks in. His wife on seeing him

pretends to swoon, but leaving her in the care of the maidservant he goes

down to the pantry to stay his ravenous appetite, and there indulges in a

hearty supper, washed down with copious draughts of wine, and then goes

to bed. In the morning his wife, in gala dress, awakes him, and he thinks

that she is dead also, and asks her when he himself died and was buried.

She says all that she knows is that he buried last night some of the

best wine and dainties provided for the carnival—he must be still drunk

to talk such nonsense. The astrologer and the painter come, and when

they hear his story declare they had not seen him or been from home last

night, and, the vicar and his friends making a similar statement, he is

persuaded the whole affair was a dream, and promises to defray the cost

of a feast on Shrove Tuesday.



It is now the turn of the _Second Lady_ to play a trick upon her husband,

the painter. “For this purpose she concerted a plan with a brother of

hers, who possessed a fine genius for amusing himself at other people’s

expense. In the first place they contrived to have a false door made

at the entrance of the house, on such a plan (then frequently adopted)

that it might be easily substituted for the real door at short notice.

It was brought thither secretly one night, and concealed in a cellar,

while the brother and two friends lay ready to carry on the intended

plot in an upper chamber of the house.” The painter returns home as

usual, and having supped retires to rest. About midnight he is roused

from a deep sleep by the cries of his wife, who pretends to be dying,

and implores him to go for her confessor, and her old nurse, who knew

her constitution. He very reluctantly rises and dresses himself, and

then sets out in quest of the nurse, who lived at the other end of the

town. Meanwhile the old door is removed and the false one substituted,

and above it a sign is placed bearing the words, “House of Public

Entertainment.” Then, according to arrangement, friends of the lady and

a party of musicians with their instruments arrive, in order to “make a

night of it.” The poor painter, after plodding his weary way in quest of

the old nurse, through wind and rain, and knocking at the wrong doors,

at last returns home, drenched to the skin. But what must have been his

amazement to find his house metamorphosed into a tavern and to hear

sounds from within of mirth and revelry! He knocks at the door, however,

and a head is thrust out of an upper window and a voice orders him to be

off, for the house is full. When he says that the house is his own, he

is told it has been a tavern for the last 15 years and is finally made

to beat a retreat by two dogs being let loose on him. Betaking himself

to his friend Señor Geloso (whose turn is yet to come), he relates

to him all his strange adventures. His friend thinks he is drunk and

accommodates him for the night in his house. Next morning they go to the

painter’s house, which has been restored to its former appearance, and

when he tells them of what had happened to him the previous night, his

wife and her friends assure him that the affair must have been the effect

of sorcery, at the same time his loving spouse reads him a severe lecture

on his debauched way of life, staying out o’ nights and so forth. It is

finally agreed to say no more about the matter.



The trick played on the jealous, ill-tempered husband of the _Third

Lady_ bears a striking resemblance to that of the Kutwál’s wife—_mutatis

mutandis_. Having plied him with wine till he is “dead drunk,” she sends

for her brother, prior of the convent of Capuchins, who comes (as

arranged) with the lay brethren, and, after his head has been shaved

and he has been dressed in the monastic garb, they carry him off to

the convent and place him in a cell. When he awakes he is perplexed at

the change that has taken place in his person and place of abode. In

brief, he is flogged next day for contumacy and sentenced to eight days’

imprisonment, with bread and water. This term expired, he is sent out

with one of the monks to beg alms, and in the course of their rounds

they come to his own house, where seeing his wife at a window he rushes

in and embraces her. The lady, of course, raises a great outcry, and the

servants and neighbours hasten to her assistance. The monk explains that

he is a crazy brother who fancies every pretty woman he sees is his wife,

and leads him back to the convent, where he is again soundly flogged

and put upon a new course of bread and water, so long that his hair and

beard were grown again. One night he is treated to a fine supper and a

bottle of wine containing an opiate, and, when he is asleep, is carried

back to his house, and on awaking next morning and telling his wife of

all that he had undergone as a monk, she persuades him that it was but

a distempered dream, and he, glad to find himself in his own house,

promises to treat her in future with all respect and full confidence in

her virtue.



The three ladies proceed next day to the dwelling of the count and

relate the tricks they had played their husbands. He says that he cannot

possibly give the preference to any one of them—they are all equally

clever—but as the ring is really one he had himself lost the very day

when they found it, he must ask them to accept and divide amongst

themselves a purse containing three hundred pistoles, and so the ladies

take their leave of the count, in every way satisfied.





THE KÁZI AND THE MERCHANT’S WIFE—p. 414.



The latter part of this story will at once remind the reader of the tale

of Alí Khoja and the Merchant of Baghdád in our common English version

of the _Arabian Nights_,[302] in which Alí Khoja, before setting out on

the pilgrimage to Makka, places a thousand gold pieces in a jar and fills

it up with olives, and gives it into the custody of a merchant with whom

he was intimate, as a jar of olives merely; and the merchant after the

Khoja had prolonged his absence far beyond the usual time opened the

jar to take out of it some olives for his wife, who had wished for that

fruit, and finding the gold underneath abstracted it, and substituted

fresh olives. The story is too well known to require the repetition of

the subsequent details—how judgment was at first given in favour of the

merchant, but was afterwards reversed, as in our story of the Kází, by

the acuteness of a boy.



It seems to have been a favourite pastime from ancient times for Asiatic

youngsters to play at “the King and his Ministers.” In the apocryphal

Arabic gospel of the Saviour’s Infancy we read: “In the month of Adar,

Jesus, after the manner of a king, assembled the boys together. They

spread their clothes on the ground and he sat down on them. Then they

put on his head a crown made of flowers, and like chamber-servants stood

in his presence, on the right and on the left, as if he was a king, and

whoever passed that way was forcibly dragged by the boys, saying: ‘Come

hither and adore the king; and then go away.’” This passage finds a

very remarkable parallel in the Mongolian tales of Ardshi Bordshi—the

second part of Miss Busk’s _Sagas from the Far East_, derived from

Jülg’s _Mongolische Märchen_, as follows: “In the neighbourhood of his

[_i.e._ Ardshi Bordshi’s] residence was a hill where the boys who were

tending the calves were wont to pass the time by running up and down.

But they had also another custom, and it was that whichever of them won

the race was king for the day—an ordinary game enough, only that when

it was played in this place the boy-king thus constituted was at once

endowed with such extraordinary importance and majesty that every one

was constrained to treat him as a real king. He had not only ministers

and dignitaries among his play-fellows, who prostrated themselves before

him, and fulfilled all his behests, but whoever passed that way could not

choose but pay him homage also.”



The Rev. J. Hinton Knowles, in a note to his _Folk-Tales of Kashmír_,

thus describes the game of “Vazír Pádisháh,” also called “Suhul,” as it

is played by the boys in Kashmír:



“It is generally played by four youngsters. Four little sticks are

provided, of which the bark on one side is peeled off. Any of the four

children throws first. If one should throw three sticks so that they all

fall on the bark side, then he is appointed _pádisháh_, or king; but if

not, they all try and throw till some one succeeds. The next thing is to

find out the _vazír_. He who throws the sticks so that one of them falls

with the bark side up, but the other three with the peeled sides up, is

appointed to this office. Then an _asúr_, or thief, has to be fixed upon.

He who throws so that two of his sticks fall with the bark side upwards

is proclaimed the thief. Lastly a _sayd_, or honest man, has to be found.

This part he has to play who throws the sticks so that three of them fall

with the bark side upwards. If it should happen that all four of them

fall with the bark sides up, that thrower has to try again.[303]



“Pádisháh, vazír, asúr, and sayd being known, the real play begins.

The asúr, or thief, is brought before the king by the vazír, who says:

‘O king, peace and health to you; here is a thief.’ The king replies:

‘Whence has he come?’ Then the vazír tells him the whole case, and

punishment has to be inflicted on the criminal. This is the most amusing

part of the whole play. ‘Give him Bangálí cannon,’ says the king, and

the vazír kicks the prisoner’s buttocks; or the king says: ‘Bring a dog

in his place from the Ladák,’ when the vazír takes the prisoner a short

distance, and then holding him by the ear pulls him back, while the

prisoner barks like a dog; or the king says: ‘Take out the spindle,’ when

the vazír draws a line with his thumb-nail on the inside of the arm from

the elbow-joint to the wrist, and then hits the arm over the line as hard

as he can with the first and second fingers of his right hand. There are

many other words of punishment too numerous to mention here.”



Not a few Eastern stories turn upon the wonderful acuteness of boys in

solving difficult questions which have perplexed the profound minds of

their “grave and reverend” seniors. The reader will find a number of

examples cited in my _Popular Tales and Fictions_, vol. ii, pp. 10,

12-14, one of which, a Mongolian tale, is analogous to that of the

Arabian story of Alí Khoja’s “pot of olives.”





THE HIDDEN TREASURE—p. 442.



The indirect source of this story is probably the following tale, from

the _Kathá Sarit Ságara_, vol. i, p. 298, of Prof. C. H. Tawney’s

translation, published at Calcutta a few years ago:



There is a city named Srávastí, and in it there lived in old time a

king of the name of Prasenajit, and one day a strange Bráhman arrived

in that city. A merchant, thinking he was virtuous because he lived on

rice in the husk, provided him a lodging there in the house of a Bráhman.

There he was loaded by him every day with presents of unhusked rice and

other gifts, and gradually by other great merchants also, who came to

hear his story. In this way the miserly fellow gradually accumulated a

thousand dínars, and going to the forest he dug a hole and buried it in

the ground, and he went every day and examined the spot. Now one day he

saw that the hole in which he had hidden his gold had been re-opened,

and that all the gold was gone. When he saw that hole empty, his soul

was smitten, and not only was there a void in his heart, but the whole

universe seemed to be a void also. And then he came crying to the Bráhman

in whose house he lived, and when questioned he told him his whole story;

and he made up his mind to go to a holy bathing-place and starve himself

to death. Then the merchant who supplied him with food, hearing of it,

came there with others, and said to him: “Bráhman, why do you long to die

for the loss of your wealth? Wealth, like an unseasonable cloud, suddenly

comes and goes.” Though plied by him with these and similar arguments, he

would not abandon his fixed determination to commit suicide, for wealth

is dearer to the miser than life itself. But when the Bráhman was going

to the holy place to commit suicide, the king Prasenajit himself, having

heard of it, came and asked him: “Bráhman, do you know of any mark by

which you can recognise the place where you buried your dínars?” When the

Bráhman heard that, he said: “There is a small tree in the wood there;

I buried that wealth at its foot.” When the king heard that he said: “I

will find the wealth and give it back to you, or I will give it you from

my own treasury; do not commit suicide, Bráhman.” After saying that,

and so diverting the Bráhman from his intention of committing suicide,

the king entrusted him to the care of the merchant, and retired to his

palace. There he pretended to have a headache, and sending out the

doorkeeper he summoned all the physicians in the city by proclamation

with beat of drum. And he took aside every single one of them and

questioned him privately in the following words: “What patients have you

here, and how many, and what medicines have you prescribed for each?” And

they thereupon, one by one, answered all the king’s questions. Then one

among the physicians, when his turn came to be questioned, said this:

“The merchant Mátridatta has been out of sorts, O king, and this is the

second day that I have prescribed for him _nágabalá_” [the plant _Uraria

Lagopodioides_]. When the king heard that he sent for the merchant and

said to him: “Tell me who fetched you the _nágabalá_?” The merchant said:

“My servant, your highness.” When the king got this answer from the

merchant he quickly summoned the servant and said to him: “Give up that

treasure belonging to a Bráhman, consisting of a store of dínars, which

you found when you were digging at the foot of a tree for _nágabalá_.”

When the king said this to him the servant was frightened, and confessed

immediately; and bringing those dínars, left them there. So the king for

his part summoned the Bráhman, and gave him, who had been fasting in the

meanwhile, his dínars, lost and found again, like a second soul external

to his body. Thus the king by his wisdom recovered to the Bráhman his

wealth, which had been taken away from the tree, knowing that that simple

grew in such spots.



       *       *       *       *       *



Many stories of hidden treasure being stolen and recovered by a clever

device are current in Europe as well as in the East. For example, in

No. 74 of the _Cento Novette Antiche_, the oldest Italian collection of

tales, a blind beggar conceals 100 florins under the floor of a church,

and is observed by a sharper who next day takes the money away. When the

blind man finds his treasure gone, he stands at the church-door at the

time of service and bids his boy watch all who enter the church and let

him know if any one should regard him (the beggar) as if with peculiar

interest. The sharp-witted boy observes a man looking at his father and

smiling, and when the beggar learns the name of the man, he scrapes

acquaintance with him, tells him that he has 100 florins concealed under

the floor of the church, and expects to receive 100 more in the course of

a day or two, which he had lent out; and begs his new friend to meet him

on such a day when they would lift the stone and deposit the additional

money. The sharper, thinking to get this other sum as well, went

privily and replaced the 100 florins he had stolen, and the blind man,

anticipating he would do so, returned at night and took away his money,

resolving to part with it no more.—The same story is found in the Breslau

printed Arabic text of the ‘Thousand and one Nights’, and is translated

by Mr. John Payne in his _Tales from the Arabic_, and also by Sir Richard

F. Burton in the first volume of his _Supplemental Nights_, under the

title of “The Melancholist and the Sharper.” A short version is given

in Gladwin’s _Persian Moonshee_; and another analogous story of buried

treasure will be found in Roscoe’s _Spanish Novelists_, ed. 1832, vol.

iii, p. 215-234, entitled “A Prodigious Adventure,” by Isidro de Robles.





THE DEAF MAN AND HIS SICK FRIEND—p. 446.



Readers who are not familiar with the Kurán may like to see in English

the Muslim “Lord’s Prayer,” called _Al-Fátihá_, which the Deaf Man

recited in presence of his sick friend, so this is it, from Rodwell’s

translation, p. 11:



    “IN THE NAME OF GOD, THE COMPASSIONATE, THE MERCIFUL!

    Praise be to God, Lord of the worlds!

    The compassionate, the merciful!

    King on the day of reckoning!

    Thee [only] do we worship, and to thee do we cry for help.

    Guide thou us on the straight path!

    The path of those to whom thou hast been gracious; with whom thou

      art not angry, and who go not astray.”



This _sura_ is esteemed as the quintessence of the Kurán, and is recited

several times in the course of each of the five daily prayers, and on

many other occasions.



       *       *       *       *       *



It is well known that men afflicted with partial deafness are generally

unwilling to acknowledge their infirmity, and even resent being talked

to in a loud tone of voice; though they often betray themselves by the

answers they give to questions asked of them, much to the amusement of

their questioners.—A story is told of a deaf Persian who was taking home

a quantity of wheat, and, coming to a river which he must cross, he saw

a horseman approach; so he said to himself: “When that horseman comes up

he will first salute me, saying, ‘Peace be with thee!’ Next he will ask,

‘What is the depth of this river?’ and then he will ask, how many _máns_

of wheat I have with me.” But the deaf man’s surmises were sadly amiss,

for when the horseman came up he cried: “Ho! my man, what is the depth

of this river?” The deaf one replied: “Peace be with thee, and the mercy

of Allah and his blessing!” At this the horseman laughed and said: “May

they cut off thy beard!” to which the deaf one rejoined: “Up to my neck.”

The horseman then said: “Dust be on thy mouth!” The deaf one placidly

replied: “Eighty máns of it.”



Here we have a very close parallel to the story of the Deaf Man and his

Sick Friend, and there is a curious Norwegian variant in Sir George W.

Dasent’s _Tales from the Fjeld_, under the title of “Goodman Axeshaft,”

which is to this purpose:



The wife and daughter of an old ferryman, who was extremely deaf, by

their extravagance plunge him into an ocean of debt and run away from

home. The sheriff is to come and seize, and the old man wonders what

he’ll say to him. “Ah, I’ll begin to cut an axeshaft, and the sheriff

will ask me how long it is to be. I’ll answer, ‘Up as far as that twig

sticks out.’ Then he’ll ask, ‘What’s become of the ferry boat?’ and

I’ll say, ‘I’m going to tar her, and yonder she lies on the strand,

split at both ends.’ Then he’ll ask, ‘Where’s your gray mare?’ and I’ll

say, ‘She’s standing in the stable, big with foal.’ And then he’ll ask,

‘Whereabouts is your sheepcote?’ and I’ll answer, ‘Not far off; when you

get a bit up the hill you’ll soon see it.’” But when the sheriff comes up

he says “Good day” to the old man, who answers: “Axeshaft.” Then he asks:

“How far off to the river?” to which the ferryman replies: “Up to this

twig,” pointing a little way up the piece of timber. The sheriff stares

and shakes his head. “Where’s your wife?” “I’m just going to tar her,”

and so forth. “Where’s your daughter?” “In the stable,” and so on. “To

the deuce with you!” exclaims the sheriff, in a rage. “Very good,” says

the old man; “not far off—when you get a bit up the hill you’ll soon see

it.” Upon this the sheriff goes off, in sheer despair.





THE GARDENER AND THE LITTLE BIRD—p. 448.



In mediæval times the ancient fable of the Fowler and the Little Bird

was appropriated by several monkish compilers of _exempla_, designed for

the use of preachers; but this version is unique, so far as my knowledge

of other forms of the fable extends. It has, exclusively, the scene

between the lapwing and the nightingale; the references to the Muslim

legend of Solomon’s receiving from a lapwing, or hoopoe, intelligence of

the city of Sabá (or Sheba) and Queen Bilkís; and the allegation of the

nightingale to the gardener that the fruit the bird had destroyed was

poisonous. The fable is found in the spiritual romance of Barlaam and

Joasaph (not Josaphat, as the name is commonly written), which is said to

have been composed in the first half of the 7th century, by a Greek monk

named John, of the convent of St. Sabá, at Jerusalem, and—according to

M. Hermann Zotenberg—redacted by Johannes Damascenus, a Greek Father, of

the 8th century, and included in his works. It is now certain that the

substance of this work was derived from Indian sources: the incidents in

the youth of Joasaph correspond with those in the early years of Gautama,

the founder of Buddhism; while some of the parables contained in the

romance are found in the _Játakas_, or Buddhist Birth-stories and others

in Hindú books. This is how the fable is told in _Barlaam and Joasaph_:



They who worship idols are like the bird-catcher who caught one of the

smallest birds, which they call the nightingale. As he was about to kill

and eat it, articulate speech was given to the bird, and it said: “What

will the killing of me profit thee, man? Thou canst not fill thy belly

with me. But if thou set me free, I will give thee three injunctions,

which, if thou observe, will benefit thee all thy life.” He was amazed to

hear the bird speak, and promised. Then said the nightingale: “Never try

to reach the unattainable. Rue not a thing that is past. Never believe

a thing that is beyond belief.” Away flies the bird; but, to test the

man’s common sense, it cries to him: “How thoughtless thou art! Inside of

my body is a pearl larger than the egg of an ostrich, and thou hast not

obtained it!” Then he repented having let the bird go free, and tried to

coax it back by fair offers. But the bird rebuked his folly in so soon

forgetting all the three injunctions it had given him.



       *       *       *       *       *



In this form the fable also occurs in the _Disciplina Clericalis_ of

Petrus Alphonsus, a Spanish Jew, who was converted to Christianity in

1106, and who avowedly derived the materials for his work from the

Arabian fabulists, and from this collection it was taken into the

_Gesta Romanorum_ (see Swan’s translation, ed. 1824, vol. ii, p. 87).

John Lydgate, the monk of Bury, of the 15th century, turned the fable

into English verse, under the title of “The Chorle and the Bird, from a

pamflete in Frenche,” which is conjectured to have been the _fabliau_

“Le Lai de l’Oiselet,” but this I think is rather doubtful. According to

Lydgate’s poem, a little bird takes up its abode in a laurel-tree in a

churl’s garden, and sings merrily all the livelong day. The churl sets a

trap (_pantere_) to catch the bird.



    It was a verray hevenly melodye,

    Evyne and morowe to here the bryddis songe,

    And the soote sugred armonye

    Of uncouthe varblys and tunys drawen on longe,

    That al the gardeyne of the noysè rong,

    Til on a morwe, whan Tytan shone ful clere,

    The birdd was trapped and kaute with a pantere.



The churl puts the little bird into a fine cage and orders it to sing,

but says the bird:



    “Song and prison have noon accordaunce,

    Trowest thou I wolle syng in prisoun?

    Song procedethe of joy and of plesaunce,

    And prison causethe dethe and destruccioun;

    Rynging of fetires makethe ne mery sounde,

    Or how shuld he be gladde or jocounde

    Agayne his wylle, that ligthe in chaynès bounde?”



“But let me out,” the bird goes on to say, “so that I may perch again on

the laurel-tree, and then I will sing to thee, and moreover,



    “I shal the yeve a notable gret gwerdoun,

    Thre grete wysdoms according to resoun,

    More of walewe, take hede what I do profre,

    Thane al the golde that is shet in thi cofre.”



The three “great wisdoms” are the same as those in other versions, and

then the little bird says that the churl by setting him free has missed

gaining a rare treasure, for in his inside is a stone, fully an ounce

in weight, which has many wonderful properties: making its possessor

victorious in battle; he should suffer no poverty or indigence but have

abundance of wealth; all should do him reverence; it would reconcile

foes, comfort the sorrowful, and make heavy hearts light.[304] The churl

is beside himself with vexation, and the bird calls him a fool for

believing such a rank impossibility.[305]



Husain Vá’iz has re-told the apologue in his _Anvár-i Suhaylí_, or Lights

of Canopus, a Persian rendering, in prose and verse, of the celebrated

Fables of Bidpaï with additions, of which this is one. Here, however, the

nightingale—having been entrapped by the gardener, because it destroyed

his roses—does not, when liberated, give the gardener three maxims, but

tells him that beneath such a tree is a vessel full of gold. The villager

digs and finds the treasure, and then asks the bird how it was that he

could see a vessel full of gold under the earth, yet not discover the

snare above ground; to which the nightingale replies, like a good Muslim:

“Hast thou not heard that ‘when Fate descends caution is in vain’?”[306]



       *       *       *       *       *



The _fabliau_ version, “Le Lai de l’Oiselet,” as found in Méon’s edition

of Barbazan’s collection, Paris, 1808, t. iii, 114, and (in modern

French prose) in Le Grand, ed. 1784, t. iii, 430, can hardly have been

the original of Lydgate’s poem, as may be seen from the following free

rendering of Le Grand’s abridgment (in which, however, he omits the

bird’s statement about the wonderful stone in its body), including a few

lines from Way’s agreeable English metrical translation:



Once on a time there was a noble castle surrounded by a wide domain of

field and forest, which was first owned by a worthy knight. His son and

successor wasted his patrimony in riotous living—“ye know well,” quoth

our poet, “that it needs but one spendthrift heir to bring great wealth

to nought”; and now the fair castle and domain had become the property of

a rich but sordid churl. This lofty and strong castle had been reared by

magic art. A pebble-paved stream flowed round a beauteous orchard, where

grew tall and shapely trees, flowers of every hue, and odorous plants;

and such was the fragrance of the air that it might have arrested a

man’s parting breath. In the midst of this fair scene a gushing fountain

sparkled in the sunlight, while near it a lofty pine tree’s deathless

verdure afforded grateful shade at noontide.



A marvellous bird had fixed his abode in this tufted pine, and ever he

sat and sang his lay of love in such sweet and moving strains that,

matched against his magic melody, the music of viol and full-toned harp

were as nought. Such was the power of this wondrous feathered minstrel

that his strains could create unutterable joy in the heart of the

despairing lover; and should they cease, and the songster take his flight

from this enchanted ground, then would all the goodly scene—castle,

trees, flowers, forest—fade away and forever disappear.



    “Listen, listen, to my lay

      (Thus the merry note did chime),

    All who mighty Love obey,

      Sadly wasting in your prime,

    Clerk and laic, grave and gay;

      Yet do ye, before the rest,

    Gentle maidens, mark me tell!

      Store my lesson in your breast,

    Trust me it shall profit well:

      Hear and heed me, and be blest!”[307]



The little warbler had no sooner ended his lay of love when he discovered

the churl, upon which the bird ordered the river to retire to its source,

the flowers to fade, the fruit to wither, and the castle to sink into

the earth; for a vile churl should not be suffered to dwell where the

beautiful and the brave had once held sweet communion. The churl, having

heard the melodious strains of the little bird, resolved to capture him

and sell him for a large sum. Accordingly he set his snare and caught the

feathered songster. “What injury have I done thee?” cried the little

bird. “And why dost thou doom me to death?” “Fear not,” said the churl;

“I only desire to hear thy song, and will get thee a fine cage and plenty

of seeds and kernels to eat. But sing thou must, else I’ll wring thy neck

and pick thy bones.” “Alas,” sighed the pretty captive, “who can sing

in prison? And even were I cooked, I could scarce furnish thee with one

mouthful.” Finding that all entreaties failed to move the hard-hearted

churl, the bird then promised that, if set free, he would tell him three

rare and precious secrets. This offer the churl could not resist, so he

freed the little bird, who straightway flew to the summit of the pine

tree, and then proceeded to disclose the three precious secrets. “First

then,” said the bird: “_Yield not a ready faith to every tale._” “Is

this all your secret?” quoth the fellow, in rising wrath. “I need it

not.” “Yet,” said the bird, “you seemed but lately to have forgot it—but

now you may hold it fast. My second secret is: _What is lost, ’tis wise

to bear with patience._” At this the churl chafed more and more. “My

third secret,” continued the bird, “is by far the best: _What good thou

hast, do not cast lightly away._” So saying, the little bird fluttered

his wings a moment, and then flew away; and immediately the castle sank

into the ground; and the fountain flowed back to its source; and the

fruits dropped withered from the trees; and the flowers faded—and all the

beauteous scene was melted into thin air.





_ADDITIONAL NOTES._



_Page 206—Five hundred pons._—It is possible that _pon_, like hun, is

another name of a pagoda, a gold coin of the value of 3½ rupís, which

has not been coined in the mints of India since the early part of this

century.



_Page 212—The Want of Children._—In the note on this subject I omitted

to include Hannah, mother of Samuel, the illustrious Hebrew seer (First

Book of Samuel, ch. i, v, 9-11, and 20).—Asiatics consider a son as the

“light,” or the “lamp,” of the household; and so it is said of a king, in

the opening of the Persian romance entitled _Bahár-i Dánish_, or Garden

and Spring, by ’Ináyatu-’lláh: “In the house of his prosperity the light

[_i.e._ a son], which is the hope of descending life, beamed not, as the

blossoms of his house [_i.e._ his women] produced not the fruit of his

wishes; for which he made grief his companion, and sat lonely, like a

point in the centre of the circle of sorrow”—poor fellow!



_Page 391—The Story of the Envious Vazír._—I cannot call to mind any

close parallel to this, but the incident upon which it turns, that of the

old hag’s artifice in procuring the lady’s dress, recalls the story of

“The Burnt Veil” in the Book of Sindibád, where a youth, desperately in

love with the virtuous wife of a merchant, employs a crone—who, like too

many of her sex in Muslim countries, went about evil-doing, in the guise

of a devotee—to cause the lady’s husband to put her away on suspicion of

her being unfaithful. But this slight resemblance is doubtless merely

fortuitous. The tale of the Envious Vazír exhibits more art than is

usually found in Eastern fictions, especially the _dénouement_, where the

Khoja’s wife cleverly causes the malignant Vazír to convict himself of

gross falsehood.



_Page 430_—The sentiment expressed to Sultan Mahmúd by the Independent

Man has its analogue in one of the countless traditions of Hatim Taï,

which goes thus: They asked Hatim: “Hast thou ever seen in the world any

one more noble-minded than thyself?” He replied: “One day I had offered

a sacrifice of 40 camels, and had gone out with some other chiefs to a

corner of the desert. I saw a thorn-cutter, who had gathered together

a bundle of thorns. I said to him: ‘Why goest thou not to share the

hospitality of Hatim Taï, when a crowd has assembled at his feast?’

He replied: ‘Whoever can eat of the bread of his own labour will not

put himself under an obligation to Hatim Taï.’ This man, in mind and

magnanimity, I consider greater than myself.”



_Page 483_—For the original of the story of the Two Merchants see Méon’s

edition of Barbazan’s collection of _Fabliaux_, Paris, 1808, tome i, 52,

“Des Deux Bons Amis Loiax,” and for the modern French prose version see

Le Grand’s _Fabliaux_, edition 1781, iii, 262.



_Page 499_—Mr. James Moir, Rector, Grammar School, Aberdeen, is the

authority (after his mother) for a story in the _Folk-Lore Journal_,

1884, vol. ii, pp. 68-71, which presents an interesting parallel to the

tale from Salsette, with a clever girl in place of Little John: Three

young girls are abandoned in a wood by their poverty-stricken parents,

because they have too many mouths to feed. The little maidens arrive at a

giant’s house and are granted shelter for the night. The giant resolves

to kill them and have them cooked for his breakfast in the morning.

In order to distinguish in the dark his own three daughters from the

stranger girls, he places “strae rapes” round the necks of the latter and

gold chains round his daughters’ necks, with the result that he puts his

own offspring to death. Mally Whuppie, the heroine, wakes her sisters

softly and they all escape. They next come to a king’s house, and Mally

and her sisters are to be married to the three sons of the king, provided

he should obtain possession of three wonderful things from the giant:

(1) his sword from the back of his bed; (2) his purse from beneath his

pillow; and (3) the ring from off the giant’s finger. Mally is successful

in her two first adventures, and though she is caught by the giant when

drawing off his ring, she ultimately escapes by a clever _ruse_.



_Page 510_—The story of the King and his Falcon occurs in many

collections, and perhaps one of the oldest versions of it is found in

Capt. R. C. Temple’s _Legends of the Panjáb_, vol. i, p. 467, in the

story of “Princess Niwal Dai,” where a snake is seen by the falcon to

drop poison into the cup.



_Page 519—The Rose of Bakáwalí._—I find my conjectures regarding the

construction of this romance are borne out by Garcin de Tassy (_Histoire

de la Littèrature Hindouie_, second edition, Paris, 1870, tome i, p.

606), in his account of a version in the Hindústání Selections by the

Sayyíd Husain, compiled by order of the Military Examiners’ Committee,

and published at Madras in the year 1849, in 2 vols. He says: “Le

second volume offre la reproduction, en 64 p., des deux tiers du

_Gul-i Bakâwalî_ d’après la rédaction de Nihâl Chand, dont j’ai donné

la traduction en français. Huçain s’arrête au mariage de Tâj ulmulûk

et de Bakâwalî, où devrait en effet finir de récit, le reste étant un

hors-d’œuvre tout à fait hindou.”



He describes a similar romance (tome ii, pp. 531, 532) by Rayhán

ed-Dín, of Bengal, written in rhymed couplets (_masnaví_) and entitled

_Khiyabán-i Rayhán_, or Parterres of the Divine Grace, A.H. 1212 (A.D.

1797-1798): “Cet ouvrage,” he says, “roule sur le même sujet que le

_Gul-i Bakâwalî_; mais, outre qu’il est tout en vers, il est beaucoup

plus long. Il se divise en quarante chapitres, intitulés chacun

_Gul-gaschnî_ (Abondance de roses).… Au surplus, il est bon de rappeler

ici ce que j’ai dit ailleurs, que le _Gul-i Bakâwalî_ est une légende

indienne qui est reproduite dans plusieurs rédactions différentes et même

dans le dialecte des Laskars du Bengale.”



Another tale, in Persian, entitled _Kissa-i Fírúz Sháh_, if not identical

with our romance, seems to be on the same plan, judging from the all-too

brief account given of it by Dr. H. H. Wilson in his _Descriptive

Catalogue of the Mackenzie Collection of Oriental MSS._, vol. ii, p. 137:

“The story of Firoz Shah, son of the king of Badakshán, who sought a

marvellous flower to cure his father.”



_Page 520_—In the so-called _Suite des Mille et Une Nuits_, by Chavis and

Cazotte (Story of Habíb, the Arabian Knight), the Amír Salamis weeps

himself blind on hearing a false report of his son Habíb’s death. The

hero, when he comes to know of this sore affliction, is told that the

only remedy is to be found among the treasures of Solomon, preserved in

a cavern, and going there he finds two flat opals fixed as eyes into a

visor, which he takes away, and with them restores his father’s sight.

And the Rabbins say that Jacob wept himself totally blind from grief at

the reported death of his son Joseph, and he recovered his sight many

years afterwards by applying to his eyes the garment of Joseph, which his

brethren brought from Egypt.



_Page 529_—There can be no doubt that the Panjábí legend of Rasálú’s

game with Sirikap and the story of the Prince and Dilbar are cousins,

so to say, not far removed. In the former Rasálú makes it one of the

conditions of sparing the life of the vanquished Sirikap that he must

consent to have his forehead branded with a red-hot iron, “in token of

his vassalage,” and another condition is that he forgive his daughter

whom he had imprisoned. In the latter the hero compels Dilbar to liberate

his four brethren, but she insists on first branding them on their backs,

“in token of the state of slavery to which they had been reduced.”—It

seems to me that in the earlier part of the Panjábí legend something must

have dropped out in connection with Rasálú’s rescuing the ants and the

hedgehog from the river (p. 525), since it is usual in folk-tales for

“thankful animals” to requite their benefactor by rendering him signal

services.









FOOTNOTES





[1] Story-telling has been quite an art in the East time out of

mind. Mrs. Meer Hasan Ali, in her _Observations on the Mussulmans of

India_, vol. ii, pp. 81, 82, says: “Many of the ladies entertain women

companions, whose chief business is to tell stories and fables to their

employer when she is composing herself to sleep. When the lady is fairly

asleep the story is stayed, and the companion resumes her employment

when the next nap is sought by her mistress. Among the higher classes

the males also indulge in the same practice of being talked to sleep by

their men slaves, and it is a certain introduction, with either sex, to

the favour of their employer when one of these dependants has acquired

the happy art of ‘telling the khánie’ (fable) with an agreeable voice

and manner. The more they embellish a tale by flights of their versatile

imaginations, so much the greater the merit of the rehearser in the

opinion of the listeners.”—In the Book of Esther, ch. vi, 1, we read that

on a certain night “could not the king sleep, and he commanded to bring

the book of the records of the chronicles, and they were read before

the king.” Well was it for the Hebrew bondsmen that Ahasuerus did not

call for a story-teller instead of the “state journal”!—The practice of

sleepless khalífs and sultans sending for story-tellers is referred to

in many Eastern tales. For an account of public reciters of tales and

romances see Lane’s _Modern Egyptians_.



[2] But are even the best novels of these days of grace marked by very

much “originality”? Do not prolific novelists _repeat themselves_? Have

they not, for the most part, a limited set of characters, which reappear

in each succeeding novel? In short, may it not be truly said of them,

as Burton (not he of _The Nights_, but he of _The Melancholy_) says of

authors in general: “They weave the same web, twist and untwist the same

rope, and make new books as apothecaries make new mixtures, by pouring

out of one vessel into another”?



[3] The following particulars regarding the author and his work are

derived from Dr. Charles Rieu’s _Catalogue of the Persian Manuscripts in

the British Museum_, vol. ii, pp. 767-8, Add. 7619, and Or. 1370; and

from Mr. F. F. Arbuthnot’s useful and interesting little work, _Persian

Portraits: a Sketch of Persian History, Literature, and Politics_

(London: Quaritch), p. 119. The title of _Shamsah ú Kahkahah_, under

which Mr. Arbuthnot describes this collection, is taken from the names of

a Witch and a Vazír who figure in the second _báb_.



[4] There is another, but wholly different, Tamil tale, with the same

title, which is described in Taylor’s _Catalogue Raisonné of Oriental

Manuscripts in the Government Library, Madras_, vol. iii, page 460: “A

king’s daughter forms an attachment at first sight to the stupid son of

another king, who cannot read the writing which she conveys to him, but

shows it to a diseased wretch, who tells him it warns him to flee for his

life. The king’s daughter is imposed upon by the leper, kills herself,

and becomes a disembodied evil spirit, haunting a choultry (or serai for

travellers), whom during the night, if they do not answer aright to her

cries, she strangles, and vampyre-like sucks their blood.” To be brief,

the famous Tamil poetess Avaiyar gets leave of the people to sleep in the

choultry in order to put an end to this calamity, and having three times

composed a recondite stanza from the strange cries, the evil spirit owns

herself conquered and departs. She is re-born as an exceedingly clever

princess, and tests the learning and poetical skill of her suitors, till

at last she is won by a poor student.—It will be readily supposed that

the chief merit of this story consists in the poetical contests.



[5] The stories related to the king by Prince Bakhtyár, though calculated

to caution him against rash judgments, have nothing in common with those

contained in the Book of Sindibád; while the tales told by Er-Rahwan

(which have been translated by Sir Richard F. Burton, and included in

the first volume of his _Supplemental Nights_) are of a miscellaneous

character—grave and gay, wise and witty—his sole object being to

prolong his life by thus amusing the king. The Vazír’s recitals are of

considerable importance to “storiologists”: we find among them analogues

of Chaucer’s Man of Law’s Tale, Pardoner’s Tale, and Merchant’s Tale, and

of the well-known legend of St. Eustache (or Placidus), which occurs in

the _Gesta Romanorum_, and from which the mediæval metrical romances of

_Sir Isumbras_, _Octavian_, _Sir Eglamour_, and _Sir Torrent of Portugal_

were derived.



[6] The Tamil text of THE KING AND HIS FOUR MINISTERS has been printed.

Through the kindness of the Pandit, I possess two copies, of different

dates, one of which, printed in 1887, has, by way of frontispiece, four

figures, in profile, like those in Egyptian paintings, all looking in the

same direction, with their hands raised and the palms joined, in respect

to the prayer to Ganesa, which is on the opposite page. The first is the

minister; the second is the king, with a crown not unlike the Pope’s

tiara, and a sword on his shoulder; the third and fourth are devotees,

whose clothing is rather scanty.



[7] “Abrégé du roman hindoustani intitulé la Rose de Bakâwalî, par M.

le professeur Garcin de Tassy”: in _Nouveau Journal Asiatique_, tome

xvi, p. 193ff. and p. 338ff. This has been reprinted along with other

translations by the learned Professor.



[8] A Khoja is a master of a household, also a teacher; in the

former acceptation it is somewhat equivalent to the old English

“goodman.”—Gibb’s _History of the Forty Vezírs_, p. 33.



[9] The humái is a fabulous bird, supposed to bestow prosperity on any

person who is overshadowed by its wings.



[10] Oriental writers frequently descant on the advantages of travel; not

only because it enlarges the mind (for “home-keeping youths have ever

homely wits”), but as a means of acquiring wealth. For some examples, see

my _Book of Sindibád_.



[11] The name generally given by the Arabs and Persians to the districts

of Northern Africa west of Egypt.



[12] Belief in judicial astrology—in the influence of the planets over

the fortunes of men—prevails throughout the East, as it did in Europe

until comparatively recent times; indeed the delusion appears to have its

adherents in our own country, even in these “double-distilled” days, if

it be true that _Zadkiel’s Almanack_ has a very large circulation. Truly

“error dies hard!”—An Asiatic, before setting out on a journey, being

married, or beginning any important affair, always consults an astrologer

to learn the precise lucky moment. In one of the _Játakas_, or Buddhist

Birth-Stories, a man having missed making a good match for his son,

because he had been told by a spiteful astrologer that the day proposed

for the nuptials was inauspicious, a wise old fellow shrewdly remarked:

“What is the use of luck in the stars? Surely getting the girl is the

luck!” and recited this stanza:



    While the star-gazing fool is waiting for luck, the luck goes by;

    The star of luck is luck, and not any star in the sky.



In the appendix to my edition of the Persian story-book entitled

_Bakhtyár Náma_, pp. 218-223, may be found some rather droll anecdotes of

the blunders of astrologers.



[13] This custom is observed by Muslims in compliance with the precept

of Muhammed: “Whoever,” said he, “believes in God and the day of

resurrection, must respect his guest; and the time of being kind to him

is one day and one night; and the period of entertaining him is _three

days_; and after that, if he does it longer, it benefits him more; but

it is not right for a guest to stay in the house of his host so long as

to incommode him.” In the introduction to the _Arabian Nights_, King

Shahriyár entertains his brother, Shah Zamán, three days, and on the

fourth he accompanies him a day’s journey and takes leave of him.



[14] Henna is a preparation made from the leaves of the Egyptian privet

(_Lawsonia inermis_), with which women in the East stain the tips of

their fingers, the palms of their hands, etc. It imparts a yellowish red

or deep orange colour, which disappears in a fortnight or three weeks,

when it has to be renewed.—See Lane’s _Modern Egyptians_, ch. i.



[15] See note on page 8.—We have in this passage the _motif_ of the

romance throughout.



[16] “Hell has no fury like a woman scorned!” Besides, the virtuous youth

might not keep the secret of her intended intrigue (for such is evidently

to be understood) to himself.



[17] Stories, such as this, of unfaithful wives outwitting their

husbands, with similar mischances, are common in Eastern collections; and

the present well-told tale would probably have been very eagerly adapted

by the early Italian novelists, had they known it, among whom, indeed, it

has more than one analogue.



[18] A tomán is a Persian gold coin which has varied much in value at

different periods; at present it is worth about 7s. 2d. of our money.



[19] The húrís (or, as the term is often written, houries) are the

black-eyed nymphs of the Muslim Paradise, of whom Muhammed has promised

seventy to each believer.



[20] One of the Egyptian magicians who “withstood Moses,” mentioned by

Arabian writers: their chief was called Simeon, and among the eminent

masters of the “art magic” were Sadhúr and Ghadúr, Jaath and Mossa, Waran

and Lamán, each of whom came attended with his disciples, amounting in

all to several thousands.—St. Paul, in his second epistle to Timothy,

iii, 8, gives the names of two of the magicians as Jannes and Jambres.



[21] The notion of the life or heart of an ogre, witch, etc., being

extraneous to the body and concealed in some object—usually very

difficult to reach by the heroes who are in their power—is often the

subject of the popular fictions of all countries. What is probably the

oldest extant instance of this occurs in an Egyptian romance, preserved

among the hieratic papyri in the British Museum, which bears to have been

written more than 3000 years ago, or about the period when Moses was,

in his youth, at the court of Pharaoh. The “curious” reader may find

numerous other examples cited in my _Popular Tales and Fictions_, vol. i,

pp. 347-351.



[22] Parrots often play important parts in Asiatic tales: here, however,

the “intelligent” bird, as will be seen presently, works only mischief.



[23] It does not appear from the preceding part of the narrative that the

hero received any ring from a “neighbour’s wife.” Perhaps something has

been omitted by a copyist of the Persian text.



[24] Many an honest fellow, besides the generous-hearted Obayd, having

been thus beggared by the rapacity of an Asiatic despot, has turned

robber in self-defence.



[25] _i.e._, Persia.



[26] An ashrafí is worth about ten shillings.



[27] It is a favourite plan for extricating an impecunious hero out of

his difficulties in Eastern fictions to represent him as finding a great

treasure in a ruin. And no doubt such an incident has often occurred

in Asiatic countries, where—in the absence of such institutions as

banks—money and jewels are usually concealed in the earth, old wells,

etc., lest the sovereign or one of his greedy ministers should come to

know of any person possessing much wealth, and forthwith confiscate it.



[28] By “Rúm” (or Roum) Asiatics generally mean Europe, at least Eastern

Europe, and “the land of the Franks” has the same meaning.



[29] This incident recalls popular tales current in our own country

of witches turning themselves into cats, and some bold fellow smiting

off a paw of one of the unholy sisterhood thus transformed, and next

day a woman suspected of witchcraft being found in her bed with one

of her hands apparently newly amputated.—Similar stories are told of

_werwolves_, or men having the power of transforming themselves for a

time into wolves.



[30] Hatim was chief of the Arab tribe of Taï, shortly before the advent

of Muhammed, and so highly celebrated for his boundless generosity that

at the present day in Muslim countries no greater compliment can be paid

to an open-handed man than to call him “another Hatim.”



[31] A gold dínar is worth about ten shillings.



[32] “_Darb er-Ramal_, or geomancy, by which, from certain marks made at

random on paper, or on sand (whence, according to some, its name), the

professors pretend to discover past, passing, and future events, is, I am

informed, mainly founded on astrology.”—Lane’s _Modern Egyptians_, ch.

xii.



[33] In the East, as in the West, religion is often assumed as a cloak

of villainy; and the half-naked darveshes who prowl through Muslim towns

and villages, blowing their horns and bellowing their eternal “hakk!

hakk!” are for the most part lewd rascals; and not a whit better are most

of those who affect to live as hermits. Muhammed said that “there is no

monkery in Islám,” which is true in one respect, viz., that while a monk

must remain a monk all his life, a darvesh may at any time toss away his

begging-bowl and return to his former station in society.



[34] Fars, or Farsistán, is a province of Persia, the capital of which

is Shíráz, so much celebrated by Háfiz and other Persian poets. As the

Neapolitans have their favourite saying, “See Naples, and die,” so the

Persians say that “If Muhammed had tasted the pleasures of Shíráz, he

would have begged Allah to make him immortal there.”



[35] This monarch is not to be confounded with that Farídún who was the

sixth of the first dynasty (Píshdádí) of ancient Persian kings.



[36] Signet-rings were commonly used throughout the East from the

earliest period of which any records have been preserved. When a king

gave his signet to any one he was thereby empowered to act in the king’s

name. Thus in the Book of Esther we read that King Ahasuerus took his

ring from off his finger and gave it first to Haman and afterwards to

Mordecai.



[37] In other words, the king resigned his throne in favour of the

prince. It seems to have been a common practice for Oriental potentates,

at a certain period of life, to retire from the cares of state and

turn ascetics—which was very proper, if all the tales be true of their

sanguinary doings!



[38] Al-Mu’tasim Billah, was the fourth son of the Khalíf Harún

er-Rashíd, and succeeded his second brother, Al-Mámún, A.D. 833. He was

the first of the Khalífs who added to his name the title of _Billah_,

which is equivalent to the _Dei Gracia_ of Christian sovereigns.

Al-Mu’tasim was the 8th Khalíf of the house of Abbas; was born on the

8th month (Shaban) of the year; ascended the throne in the 218th year

of the Hijra; lived 48 years; and died on the 18th of the month Rabí

I; he fought 8 battles; built 8 palaces; begat 8 sons and 8 daughters;

had 8,000 slaves; and had 8,000,000 dínars and 80,000 dirhams [a dirham

is a silver coin of the value of sixpence] in his treasury at his

death;—whence Oriental historians gave him the name of Al-Musamman, or

the Octonary.



[39] When a Persian monarch desires to show his special regard for any

great man who has come to his court, he presents him with a _khil’at_, or

robe of honour, which is often very valuable.



[40] Compared with this what was the archery feat of Locksley (_alias_

Robin Hood), as described in _Ivanhoe_? It seems to have been a common

practice in Persia to suspend a finger-ring as the mark and prize in an

archery competition. A story is told of a Sháh who, while on a pleasure

excursion to Massala Shíráz, appointed an archery contest for the

amusement of himself and his courtiers. He caused a gold ring, set with

a valuable gem, to be fixed on the dome of ’Asád, and it was announced

that whosoever should send an arrow through the ring should obtain it as

the reward of his skill. The four hundred skilled archers forming the

royal body-guard each shot at the ring without success. It happened that

a boy on a neighbouring house-top was at the same time diverting himself

with a little bow, when one of his arrows, shot at random, went through

the ring. The boy, having thus obtained the prize, immediately burned his

bow, shrewdly observing that he had done so in order that the reputation

of this his first feat should never be impaired. (Sa’dí’s _Gulistân_, or

Rose-Garden, ch. iii). The famous Persian poet and robber-chief Kurroglú

had a band of 777 men under his command, and Demurchy-oglú (_i.e._ the

son of the blacksmith) offered himself for a vacancy. Kurroglú, in order

to test the nerve of the candidate, bade him sit down; then taking an

apple from his pocket and a ring from his finger, he stuck the ring in

the apple, and ordered one of his men to remove the cap from the head of

the new comer. Having placed the apple on the young man’s head, Kurroglú

rode to one side and bent his bow and continued to pass one arrow after

another through the ring. Out of sixty arrows that were shot not one went

astray. (Chodzko’s _Popular Poetry of Persia_, pp. 88, 89). Here we have

the feat of William Tell—with a difference.



[41] The duty of the muezzin is to chant the call to prayer (_adán_) from

the minaret of the mosque five times every day. Blind men are generally

employed as muezzins, in order that they should not overlook the

terraces, or flat roofs, of the houses, where the inmates generally sleep

during very hot weather.



[42] The Súfís are the mystics of Islám, and profess to have attained,

by meditation, so advanced a stage of spiritual perfection as to render

the teachings of the Kurán and the ordinary religious observances quite

unnecessary to them. They are generally considered by the “orthodox”

as arrant infidels. For an interesting account of some of their public

“religious” performances, see the chapter on the Dancing Darveshes in

Lane’s _Modern Egyptians_.



[43] Muhammed.



[44] In primitive times even kings were proud of their skill in the art

of cookery. Thus in the charming story of Nala and Damayanti (an episode

of the great Hindú epic, the _Mahábhárata_) the good Rájá is recognised

by his devoted wife, who had been long separated from him, by some meat

of his dressing. And in the other grand Indian epic, the _Rámáyana_, the

demi-god Rámá is represented as killing and cooking the dinner of his

spouse Sitá and himself:



    Their thirst allayed, the princes ply the chase,

    And a fat stag soon falls beneath their arrows.

    A fire they kindle next, and dress their prize;

    Then, offering to the gods and manes made,

    With Sitá they the social banquet share.



And readers of the _Arabian Nights_ will remember how young Bedr ed-Dín

Hasan was discovered by the delicious tarts for the making of which he

had been always famed.



[45] One of the signs of the Zodiac.



[46] Wrestling has been from the most ancient times a favourite sport

in Persia, as it has also been among the Japanese. Due allowance must,

of course, be made for the Oriental exaggeration here indulged in, of

representing our hero as throwing two hundred men in succession;—still,

the author is not inconsistent, for did not he, single-handed, lay about

him boldly and scatter the gang of robbers in the mosque and prove more

than a match for the townsfolk?



[47] I presume by the “Sun of Prophecy” is meant Muhammed. The “Court of

Unity” is Heaven.



[48] This little story is evidently intended as a satire on ascetics

whose notions of religious duties spring from their own foolish minds,

and who are often held up to ridicule by the most eminent Persian poets

and moralists.



[49] In spite of the vigilance with which women in the East are guarded

from communication with lovers, it is said that men frequently gain

access to harams disguised in female apparel, with or without the

connivance of the “neutral personages” who are appointed to keep watch

and ward over the private apartments.



[50] This recalls an incident in the Muslim legend of King Solomon’s

temporary degradation, in consequence of his having fallen into

the heinous sin of idolatry—a legend adapted from the Jewish

traditionists—when “the wisest man the world e’er saw” became an outcast

and a vagrant, and took service with a fisherman; his wages being two

fishes each day.



[51] The wise and witty author of _Hudibras_ partly expresses the same

sentiment in these lines:



    Man is supreme lord and master

    Of his own ruin and disaster,

    Controls his fate, but nothing less

    In ordering his own happiness:

    For all his care and providence

    Is too feeble a defence

    To render it secure and certain

    Against the injuries of fortune;

    And oft, in spite of all his wit,

    Is lost with one unlucky hit,

    And ruined with a circumstance

    And mere punctilio of a chance.



                                   Butler’s _Remains_.



But the Hindú sages give forth no uncertain sound on this subject, as

may be seen from these verses, which are cited in the _Hitopadesa_, a

Sanskrit version of the celebrated Fables of Bidpaï:



“As from a lump of clay a workman makes whatever he pleases, in like

manner a man obtains the destiny prepared by himself.”



“Fortune waits upon that lion of a man who exerts himself. Abject fellows

say: ‘It is to be given by destiny.’ Put forth manliness with all your

strength. If when effort has been made it succeed not, what blame is

there in such a case?”



[52] Muslims regard Lukman as the type of human wisdom. He is said to

have been an Ethiopian slave and served in the army of the Hebrew king

David. Many striking sayings and fables are ascribed to him, but it is

more than doubtful whether he composed any apologues.



[53] The loves of Laylá and Majnún—the Romeo and Juliet of the East—have

formed the theme of several very beautiful Persian and Turkish poems.

Majnún (which means “mad from love:” his proper name was Kays) was the

son of an Arab chief and deeply enamoured of a maiden of another tribe;

and on her being married to a foreign and wealthy suitor he became

distraught, and fled to the wilderness. When Laylá became a widow and met

her lover once more she found him a raving maniac and died soon after.

Majnún expired on her tomb.



[54] Muslim poets are never weary of harping on the fancied love of the

nightingale (_bulbul_) for the rose, to which he is supposed to pour out

his nightly plaint.



[55] “The philosopher,” says a Persian poet, “died of grief and distress,

while the blockhead found a treasure in a ruin.”



[56] It is rare indeed to find in Eastern tales such sensible

observations put in the mouths of sultans, who are for the most part mere

lay figures or credulous fools. Mr. R. L. Stevenson has happily described

the monarchs that figure in the _Arabian Nights_ as “wooden kings.” Here,

however, we have in this sultan a really sagacious man.



[57] The renowned Harún er-Rashíd was not the only Oriental monarch fond

of prowling through his capital after nightfall in disguise: Indian kings

of the olden time, long before the Muhammedan invasion and subjugation,

are said to have made it their regular practice. King James the Fifth of

Scotland was wont to adopt all sorts of disguises and go about in quest

of _amorous_ adventures.



[58] Blighted, as they firmly believed, by the mere sight of the

_unlucky_ man.



[59] Copies of the Kurán are always very beautifully written and often

illuminated with great taste and splendour, and are very costly. Poor

Shoayb may, however, have been induced to select a Kurán out of the

robbers’ booty rather from motives of _piety_ than from any desire of

gain.—I may mention that, although the art of printing is now practised

both in Persia and Turkey, copies of the Kurán are still multiplied (or

were so till very lately) by handwriting, from a superstitious notion

that the impure materials employed in printing would profane the sacred

text.



[60] Friday is the Muslim Sunday—called _El-Jum’á_, or the Assembly; but

it is not observed as a day exclusively devoted to religious exercises,

like the “Lord’s Day” among our Protestant “evangelicals,” whose motto

seems to be, “Let us all be unhappy together,” on that day which they

ought rather to regard as a day of pious rejoicing, could they be

consistent; nor are the superstitious notions associated with the Sabbath

in Jewish minds entertained by Muslims regarding the day of _El-Jum’á_.



[61] The number _forty_ seems to have been always a favourite among

Eastern peoples, and it occurs in the Bible many times in connection

with important events. Thus the Flood continued _forty_ days (Gen. vii,

17); Joseph and his kinsmen mourned _forty_ days for their father Jacob

(Gen. l, 3); thrice Moses fasted _forty_ days (Exod. xxiv, 18, xxxiv,

28, and Deut. ix, 9-25); during _forty_ days the Hebrew spies searched

Canaan (Numb. xiii, 25); Goliath defied the Hebrew army for _forty_

days (1 Sam. xvii, 16); Elijah fasted _forty_ days (1 Kings xix, 8);

Nineveh was to be destroyed after _forty_ days (Jonah iii, 4); _forty_

days Ezekiel bore the iniquities of the house of Judah, a day for a year

(Ezek. iv, 6); Christ was tempted by Satan during _forty_ days (Matt.

iv, 2, and Mark i, 13), and he continued _forty_ days on earth after his

resurrection (Acts i, 3); the Israelites were condemned to wander in the

wilderness _forty_ years (Numb. xiv, 33).—Muslims mourn _forty_ days for

their dead; and they deem a woman ceremonially unclean during _forty_

days after childbirth: among the Israelites the period was forty days

when she had given birth to a male child and eighty days in the case of

a female child.—In the present romance, our unlucky hero, Nassar, is

directed by the hermit’s “last will,” as above, to spend _forty_ days in

prayer for the restoration of the fairies’ fountain; he shoots an arrow

through a finger-ring _forty_ times (p. 100); but his too expert archery

caused an accident to the king, from the effects of which his majesty

did not recover until he had been “_forty_ days under medical treatment”

(p. 102); poor Shah Manssur was in the power of the cruel sorceress for

nearly _forty_ days (p. 26); and the son of the king of Tytmyran was

tossed about on the sea in a boat for _forty_ days (p. 73). To conclude

this long note: _forty_ is the usual number of a gang of robbers in

Eastern tales—that of “Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves” will at once occur

to the reader; and we have another example in the diverting story of

“Ahmed the Cobbler” (Malcolm’s _Sketches of Persia_), where the king’s

treasury is plundered by _forty_ robbers.



[62] Excepting, surely, “the shark and the sun-fish dark”!



[63] “Sometimes it happens,” says our author, “that a man is such a

favourite of fortune that if another try to injure him even that will

turn to his advantage. Good men refrain in thought and word and deed

from injuring their fellow men; but evil-minded men resemble scorpions

in their nature, stinging everybody without cause, and with no profit to

themselves, while the objects of their hatred nevertheless prosper;—as

will appear from the following story of the adventures of Farrukhrúz,

whose success was promoted by the enmity which the vazírs of the king of

Yaman entertained against him.”



[64] A sensible man! He was well aware that frequently “riches take unto

themselves wings and flee away.” The sons of “self-made” men seldom turn

out to be of much account—probably because fathers such as Khoja Marján

are not often found among those whose sole aim in life has been to “mak’

siller”!



[65] Or Yemen: the ancient Arabia Felix.



[66] “Forty days” again!—see _ante_, note on pp. 140, 141.



[67] A kind of witch’s broomstick, apparently. It is to be regretted that

our author (or the holy hermit) did not specify the other properties

of this wonderful staff! Doubtless it also provided the possessor with

“meat, drink, and clothing,” in common with similar magical articles

which figure in the fairy tales of all peoples.



[68] Muslims have derived from the Jewish cabbalists the notion of the

marvellous efficacy of the “unutterable Name” of God—called by the Arabs

_El-Ism el-Aazam_, “the Most Great Name.” It was, they say, engraved

on Solomon’s signet-ring, by means of which he subdued all the genii

and demons, save one rebellious and powerful genie called Sakhr, who

concealed himself in an island in mid-ocean. But the Wise King “took up”

with strange women—with the daughters of idolatrous kings whom he had

conquered in battle; and to one of those he gave his ring one unlucky

day, to keep for him while he was at his bath. The demon Sakhr, who had

been prowling invisibly about the palace, in hopes of catching his royal

enemy at an unguarded moment, assumed Solomon’s form and readily obtained

possession of the wonder-working ring, and sat on the throne of Israel,

while Solomon—whose appearance was at once changed—was driven forth, to

wander up and down the land as a beggar. To be brief, the ring was, after

long years, found in the maw of a fish—Sakhr having thrown it away when

he fled, on being detected as an imposter by the reading of the Law in

his presence—and Solomon “came to his own again.” Solomon’s signet-ring

figures frequently in Muslim romances and stories: it was with this

magical ring that he sealed the copper vessels into which he conjured

certain rebellious genii, and then caused them to be thrown into the sea;

it also gave him power over all creatures on the earth and in the waters,

and over the eight winds, which, at his command, wafted through the air,

whithersoever he pleased, himself and his army on the marvellous carpet

woven for him by genii—to which the poet Bahá-ed-Dín Zuhayr, of Egypt,

thus alludes in an address to his lady-love:



    “And now I bid the very wind

      To speed my loving message on,

    As though I might its fury bind,

      Like Solomon.”



The wind is a common messenger of love in the amatory poetry of the

East;—thus a pre-Islamite Arabian poet exclaims in apostrophising his

beloved: “O may the western breeze tell thee of my ardent desire to

return home!”



[69] I reproduce the following notes on treasure-trees from my paper on

the Franklin’s Tale (entitled “The Damsel’s Rash Promise”) in _Originals

and Analogues of some of Chaucer’s “Canterbury Tales”_ printed for the

Chaucer Society, p. 336:



In the _Kathá Sarit Ságara_—an ancient Sanskrit story-book—we read of

trees with golden trunks, branches of jewels, the clear white flowers of

which were clusters of pearls; golden lotuses, etc. Aladdin, it will be

remembered, found in the cave, where was deposited the magic lamp, trees

bearing “fruit” of emeralds and other gems of great price, with which he

took care to stuff his pockets.



In the mediæval romance of Alexander we are told how the world-conqueror

jousted with Porus for his kingdom, and having overthrown him, he

found in the palace of the vanquished monarch innumerable treasures,

and amongst others a vine of which the branches were gold, the leaves

emerald, and the fruit of other precious stones—a fiction, says Dunlop,

which seems to have been suggested by the golden vine which Pompey

carried away from Jerusalem.



The garden of Duke Isope, as described in the _Tale of Beryn_ (Supp.

Canterbury Tales: Ch. Soc., p. 84), had a similar tree:



    “In mydward of this garden stant a feire tre,

    Of alle maner levis that under sky [there] be,

    I-forgit and i-fourmyd, eche in his degre,

    Of sylvir, and of goldè fyne, that lusty ben to see.”



As the treasures coveted by the Arimaspians were guarded by griffins,

and the golden apples of the Hesperides by a dragon, so this garden of

Duke Isope was kept by eight “tregetours,” or magicians, who looked like

“abominabill wormys,” enough to frighten the bravest man on earth.



The Italian poet Boiardo, in the 12th canto of his _Orlando Innamorato_,

represents the virtuous Tisbina as promising her love to Iroldo, who is

madly enamoured of her, on condition that he perform a certain task for

her: “Beyond the forest of Barbary,” says she, “is a fair garden, which

has an iron wall. Herein entrance can be obtained by four gates: one

Life keeps, Death, another, Poverty, another, and Riches, another. Whoso

goes therein must depart by the opposite gate. In the midst is a tree of

vast height, far as an arrow may mount aloft; that tree is of marvellous

price, for whenever it blossoms it puts forth pearls, and it is called

the Treasure-Tree, for it has apples of emerald and boughs of gold. A

branch of this tree,” adds the fair Tisbina, “I must have, otherwise I am

in heavy case.”



[70] A species of inferior _jinni_, or genie.



[71] It is a general practice of Muslim men to shave their heads,

leaving in front a _kakull_, or tuft of hair, in order, according to

some writers, that an enemy, in the day of battle, after cutting off the

head of any of the faithful whom he had slain, should have wherewithal

to carry it, and not require to pollute it by thrusting his fingers into

the mouth. This bears some resemblance to the tuft which North American

Indians wear, as a defiance to their foes—to scalp them if they can! The

tuft on the Muslim’s head, however, serves another purpose, in being

allowed to grow for some time before he sets out on the pilgrimage to

Makka, so that, arrived there, he can twist it round his head like a

turban, as a guard against the fierce Arabian sun. The Bráhmans also

shave their heads, leaving a similar tuft, which, like the “pig-tail” of

a Chinaman, is a mark of respectability, and its removal is a very great

disgrace.



[72] Iskandar, or Sikandar: Alexander the Great, of whom Muslim writers

relate many wonderful stories—especially the Persian poet Nizamí, in his

famous _Sikandar-Náma_, or Alexander-Book.—Jamshíd was the fourth of the

first (or Píshdádí) dynasty of ancient Persian kings. He is said to have

founded Persepolis, and introduced the solar year, and ordered the first

day of it, when the sun entered Aries, to be celebrated by a magnificent

festival, which is still observed in Persia, and is called the _Nú Rúz_,

or the New Day. Of his goblet, above referred to, _Jam-i-Jamshíd_, or

the Cup of Jamshíd, marvellous things are related: it mirrored the whole

world, foreshadowed future events, and so forth. It is said that such was

its lustre that it dazzled all beholders, and hence poets have found it a

convenient simile for the brilliant eyes of a pretty girl.



[73] It does not appear that the astrologer’s prediction was

fulfilled—though a blind man once shot a crow, but, like the astrologer,

for one hit he missed a thousand times. A good story is told of an essay

in the capacity of astrologer on the part of Anvarí, the celebrated

Persian poet. It so happened that in 1186 A.D. (581 or 582 A.H.) there

was a conjunction of all the planets in the sign of Libra. Anvarí

predicted a storm which would eradicate trees and destroy all buildings.

When the fatal day arrived, it was perfectly calm, and there was the

whole year so little wind that the people were unable to winnow their

corn. The unlucky poet-astrologer was obliged to fly to Balkh, where he

died, in the reign of Sultan Alá-ed-Dín Takash, A.D. 1200 (A.H. 596).



Astrologers having predicted for the year 1523 incessant rains and

disastrous floods, the good abbot of St. Bartholomew, in Smithfield,

London, built a house at Harrow-on-the-Hill, and stored it with

provisions. Many people followed his example and repaired to high places,

in order to escape the expected deluge. But no extraordinary rains

occurring, the disappointed soothsayers pacified the people by confessing

themselves mistaken just one hundred years in their calculation!—Readers

of Chaucer will remember how the arch-rogue Clerk Nicolas, for his own

wicked ends, predicted, to his simple landlord, the carpenter, that a

flood was presently to come upon the earth, greater than that which Noah

and his family “rode-out” in the Ark.



Mrs. Meer Hasan Ali, in her interesting _Observations on the Mussulmans

of India_, says: “It is wonderful the influence which a _najúm_ [_i.e._

astrologer] acquires in the houses of many great men in India. Wherever

one of those idlers is entertained he is the oracle to be consulted on

all occasions. I know those who submit with a childlike docility to the

najúm’s opinion, when their better reason, if allowed sway, would decide

against the astrologer’s prediction. If the najúm says it is not proper

for Nawáb Sahib and his lady to eat, drink, or sleep, to take medicine,

to give away or accept any gift, the najúm has said it, and the najúm

must be right.” (Vol. i, pp. 69, 70.)



[74] Akhfash was a Muhammedan professor of grammar and literature who

was so unlucky as not to be able to attract any disciples; he therefore

trained a goat and lectured to it, the docile animal approving, doubting,

or denying his propositions as occasion required, and in course of time,

when it had attracted a very large number of scholars, its functions

ceased.—_E. Rehatsek, the translator._



[75] We have in this scene, between the simple dweller in the desert, the

infatuated Farrukhrúz, and the Amír, a capital example of Oriental humour.



[76] Thus the sultan received our hero on a footing of equality with

himself, and the scene recalls the meeting of the two brothers, King

Sháhriyár and Sháh Zamán in the opening of the _Arabian Nights_.



[77] Notwithstanding all that has been written by European orientalists

during the last half-century regarding the Muhammedan religion, the

notion is still widely prevalent that, according to the Kuránic

teachings, women have not souls. The idea is quite preposterous, and must

have been set afloat by bigoted Christian “champions” who wished to throw

discredit on the doctrines of Islám. In the Kurán future rewards are

promised and future punishments are threatened to men and women alike.

And in Muslim stories, which may be considered as faithfully reflecting

the general religious belief, women are often spoken of as having gone

to Paradise at their death, while it is not unusual for the transcriber

of a book to insert at the end a prayer for the souls of his father and

mother. Moreover, among the traditions preserved of Muhammed is the

following, which shows that the Founder of Islám could occasionally

indulge in a little harmless pleasantry: An old woman came to him one

day, and asked what should be the lot of such as she in Paradise. The

Prophet replied, that no old women would be there, upon which the poor

crone set up a loud wail, but Muhammed presently soothed her by smilingly

explaining that all the old women would become young when they entered

Paradise.



[78] Yet again “forty days”!



[79] The name of the king is derived from Alakápuri, the city of Kavéra,

the god of riches, and Alakésa is therefore an appellation signifying a

wealthy king.



[80] The Pandit remarks that this kind of statement often occurs in

stories in proof of the just reign of a monarch. The Hindú idea is, that

so long as justice and equity characterised a king’s rule, even beasts

naturally inimical were disposed to live in friendship. When timely

rain fails or famine stalks through the land, turning his eyes from the

natural causes, the orthodox Hindú will say that such a king is now

reigning over them unjustly, and hence the calamity.



[81] According to a Persian writer, “she is a perfect woman who considers

her husband as the most accomplished of men, and thinks all the sons of

Adam beside quite unworthy of a transient glance from the corner of her

half-shut eyes.” And in the _Mahábhárata_ we are told that “she is a good

wife whose husband is as her very life.”



[82] “Distinguishing the peculiarities of an animal by its footsteps,

etc.,” says the Pandit, “is often met with in Indian stories. Precisely

the reverse of this is the tale of the four blind men who disputed about

the form of an elephant. One of them had felt only the elephant’s ear,

and said it was like a winnow; another examined the breast and a foreleg,

and said it was like a thick stump of wood; the third felt the trunk and

said it was like a heavy crook; while the fourth, having touched only the

tail, declared it was like a sweeping rake.”



[83] A pagoda is now of the value of about 7s. 6d.



[84] Sambhavi and Mahámayi are among the numerous names of Kálí, the

goddess of destruction, called also Parvati and Durga: the daughter of

Himálaya, sovereign of the snowy mountains. She is described as terrible

in form and very irascible in temper. In her amiable form she is called

Bhaváni. To address a deity by a number of appellations, as above, is

considered as the readiest way to secure favour.—Mr. Natésa Sástrí, in

a note in _Indian Notes and Queries_ for Sept. 1887, p. 215, states

that “the goddess Kálí is much worshipped in the Madras Presidency, and

especially so during an epidemic. During an outbreak of cholera in Madras

in 1884, the Kálí image in the Minakshí temple, near the Dvaja Stambha,

was daily propitiated by a thousand pots each of ghí (clarified butter)

milk, oil, etc.”



[85] Vijanajara, now a village in Hospet _táluk_, Bellary district,

Madras Presidency. The proper name of this village is Hampi, but

Vijanajara was the name of the dynasty and the kingdom which had its

capital there, and was the last great Hindú power in the South. Founded

by two adventurers in the middle of the 14th century, it lasted for two

centuries, till its sun went down at Tálikot in 1565 A.D. The ruins of

Hampi cover nine square miles.—Sir W. W. Hunter’s _Imperial Gazetteer of

India_.



[86] A _ghatika_ is twenty-four minutes.



[87] Apparently the arrows were attached to some kind of mechanism which

should discharge them on the opening of the pot. “There is nothing new

under the sun”! Dynamite is perhaps a discovery of our own times, but

“infernal machines,” which served the purpose of king-killers, are of

ancient date.



[88] Hindús, at their meals, squat on the ground, with leaves in place of

earthenware dishes, on which their food is served. The leaves of the palm

are very large, and each may be cut into a number of “plates.”



[89] A long cloth, which is often the only covering worn by Hindús.



[90] The women’s apartments; called by Muslims generally “the haram.”



[91] A sum of money varying, says the Pandit, in different localities in

the south of India. In old Chola grants “two pons” occurs.



[92] _i.e._ “Lion among beasts.”



[93] Setti, or Sethi, is a term applied respectfully to many of the races

engaged in trade or financial transactions; to the Zoroastrian Parsí,

the Muhammedan Bora, and to Hindús in the north and south of the Madras

Presidency, occupied as bankers, merchants and shopkeepers.



[94] A species of weasel, commonly, but incorrectly, written “mungoose,”

as though the animal was of the _goose_ kind. The mungús is very expert

in killing snakes.



[95] Visvesvara: “Lord of all,” a name of Siva, the third deity of the

Hindú triad.



[96] The want of children is doubtless felt more or less keenly by all

the races of mankind, but the Hindú is taught to believe that he cannot

attain ultimate salvation without leaving a son behind him. The Chinese

who hold to their old religion have also a great horror of dying and

leaving no male offspring to sacrifice to their manes, and to avoid

such a calamity they adopt children when they have none of their own.

Among most Asiatic peoples, indeed, a childless wife is generally but

most unjustly despised, hence the thousand and one nostrums in which

Hindú women vainly put faith in expectation of having their sterility

removed. We have four notable instances in the Bible of women bearing

famous sons after having been long sterile: Sarah, mother of Isaac, the

Hebrew patriarch; Rachel, mother of Joseph, viceroy of Egypt; the wife

of Manoah, mother of Samson, the Hercules of the Hebrews; and Elizabeth,

mother of John the Baptist.—After all, sterile wives may console

themselves with the reflection that children are not always an unalloyed

blessing!



[97] “The most useful, plentiful, and best fruit,” says Forbes, in his

_Oriental Memoirs_, vol. i, p. 30, “is the mango, which grows abundantly

all over Hindústán, even in the forests and hedge-rows, on trees equal

in size to a large English oak, but in appearance and foliage more

resembling the Spanish chestnut. This valuable fruit varies in shape,

colour, and flavour as much as apples do in Europe. The superior kinds

are extremely delicious, and in the interior resemble the large yellow

peach of Venice, heightened by the flavour of the orange and agana; and

so plentiful are mangoes in the hot season throughout most parts of India

that during my residence in Guzerat they were sold in the public markets

for one rupee the cusly, or 600 lbs. in English weight for half-a-crown.

They are a delicacy to the rich, a nutritious food for the poor, who in

the mango season require but little other sustenance.”—The skin of the

mango is described as being smooth and tough; its colour when ripe is

grass green, or yellow in many shades, with occasional tinges and streaks

of bright red; the pulp is as juicy as our wall-fruit. The kernel is of

a hot and rather offensive flavour, but the poor people collect it, and

when dried grind it into flour for bread, which is more wholesome than

agreeable. An orchard of mango-trees is a small fortune to the possessor,

and when they are in blossom it forms a luxurious resort to the lovers of

Nature.—_Mrs. Meer Hasan Ali._



[98] “Alas!” says Somadeva, “fickle is the mind of woman!” Again: “A

woman desires fresh men, as the humble bee wanders from flower to

flower.” And again: “A fickle dame is like a sunset—momentarily aglow for

everyone.”



[99] Compare with this the question asked of Jesus Christ by his

disciples (John ix, 2): “Master, who did sin, _this man_ or his parents,

that he was _born_ blind?” from which it would appear some of the Jews

in those days entertained notions akin to the Hindú (and Pythagorean)

doctrine of metempsychosis.



[100] The parrot, of course, was a human being re-born in that form, in

accordance with the doctrine of metempsychosis, which is a fundamental

article of the Hindú religion.



[101] It is curious to find goldsmiths and jewellers invariably

represented in Hindú stories as arrant rogues. In the fine old Indian

drama entitled _Mrichchakati_, or the Toy-Cart, it is said: “There is no

lotus that has not a stalk, no trader that is not a cheat, no goldsmith

that is not a thief.”



[102] Tope, or stupa, a sepulchral memorial monument; a mound-like

building erected for the preservation of relics. They are found in

Afghanistán, Tibet, Nepál, and Western Asia; also in various parts of

Southern India. On the demise of Gautama [the founder of Buddhism],

B.C. 543, his body was consumed, divided into eight portions, and

distributed amongst applicants, who erected topes over them. The word

_tope_ is the same as _st’hupo_ in Pali—a mound or tumulus; st’hupo, or

tope, is therefore a name common to each kind of tumulus, whether it be

the solid temple dedicated to the Supreme Being or the massive mound

erected over the relics of Buddha, or those of one of his more eminent

followers.—Balfour’s _Cyclopædia of India_.



[103] Vedas: “divine knowledge.” The Vedas are the holy books which are

the foundations of the Hindú religion. They consist of hymns written in

the old form of Sanskrit, and, according to the most generally received

opinion, were composed between 1500 and 1000 B.C. Some scholars have

thought the oldest of the hymns may be carried back a thousand years

farther. The four Vedas are: the Rig-Veda, the Yajur-Veda, the Sama-Veda,

and the Atharva-Veda, the last being of comparatively modern date.—See

Dowson’s _Classical Dictionary of Hindú Mythology_.



[104] The six Sastras comprise philosophical systems of the Hindús: the

term Sastra signifies a treatise or rule.



[105] “It is a very common practice,” remarks the Pandit, “to dupe

ordinary people in this manner in Hindú temples. Some impostor will

proclaim to the crowd that the god, or goddess, is then upon him, and

utter whatever comes uppermost in his mind. He occasionally contrives to

accomplish his private ends by such revelations. The ignorant are greatly

misled by those impostors, and learned Hindús condemn the practice as

gross superstition.”



[106] “Fiat experimentum in corpore vili.”



[107] Full grown and ripe bambú bears a kind of corn which when collected

and husked resembles wheat. Hunters cook a most delicious food of bambú

grain and honey.



[108] Not only are serpents popularly believed by Asiatics to be

guardians of hidden treasures, but they are also said to have most

valuable gems in their heads, which they sometimes present to persons who

have rendered them good service. This notion was once prevalent in Europe

regarding toads; and readers of Shakspeare will remember his comparison

of the uses of adversity to the “toad, ugly and venomous, which yet

wears a precious jewel in its head.” A curious serpent legend is current

in Kandahár regarding ’Alí Mardán Khán, when governor of that city: A

cowherd of Kandahár lost two or three of his cattle in a certain pasture

and came to the governor to complain about it. ’Alí Mardán Khán ordered

him to fill some cowhides with lime, leaving a hole in each, and to place

them in the meadow. It appeared that a serpent came daily and carried off

the cattle, and on this occasion took away one of the hides, but leaving

a track of lime behind him was traced to his lair. The lime in the hide

disagreed with him and so he died. Beside his carcase was found a great

heap of treasures and the _philosopher’s stone_, which immensely enriched

’Alí Mardán Khán.



[109] See note 2, p. 122.



[110] Ahmed: “Praiseworthy”; one of the appellations of Muhammed.



[111] “Had it not been for thee, verily the heavens had not been

created.”—_Kurán._



[112] Burák was the name of the animal that carried Muhammed on his

famous (and fabulous) Night Journey through the Seven Heavens; for an

account of which see Muir’s _Life of Mahomet_, ii, 219-222; Lane’s

_Modern Egyptians_; and D’Herbelot’s _Bibliothèque Orientale_, art.

_Borak_.—According to the _Sikandar Náma_ (Alexander-Book) of Nizamí,

Burák was silken as to body, silvern as to hoof, and to such a degree

swift moving that nothing could equal him.—Canto iv, 12, p. 32 of

Clarke’s translation.



[113] Alí was the son-in-law of Muhammed, having married Fatima, the

beloved daughter of the Prophet. Of the two great sects of Muslims the

_shi’ahs_ consider Alí and his immediate descendants (eleven in number)

as “the true and only imáms” in succession of Muhammed, while the _súnís_

regard the khalífs—’Umar, Abú Bakr, etc.—as the lawful representatives of

the Prophet. The Persians and the Indian Muslims are (like our present

author) _shi’ahs_; the Turks and Arabs are _súnís_.



[114] “Ornament of kings.”



[115] The Hercules of the Persians, and the principal hero of the _Sháh

Náma_ (Book of Kings), Firdausí’s great epic.



[116] “Crown of kings.”



[117] It is still a common practice in Persia and India when a child

is born—especially a son—for an astrologer to be employed to “cast his

horoscope” and thereby foretell the child’s career in life. “In 1670 the

passion for horoscopes and expounding the stars prevailed in France among

persons of the first rank. The new-born child was usually presented naked

to the astrologer, who read the first lineaments in its forehead and the

transverse lines in its hands, and thence wrote down its future destiny.

Catherine de Medicis brought Henry IV, then a child, to old Nostradamus,

whom antiquaries esteem more for his Chronicle of Provence than for his

vaticinating powers. The sight of the reverend seer, with a beard which

‘streamed like a meteor in the air,’ terrified the future hero, who

dreaded a whipping from so grave a personage. Will it be credited that,

one of these magicians having assured Charles IX that he should live as

many days as he should turn about on his heel in an hour, standing on

one leg, his majesty every morning performed that solemn exercise for an

hour, the principal officers of the court, the judges, the chancellors,

and the generals likewise, in compliment standing on one leg and turning

round!”—_Demonologia_, by J. S. F.



[118] Abú-Síná, or Abú ’Alí Síná, or Ibn-Síná, called generally in Europe

Avicenna, was a famous physician and philosopher at the court of Baghdád.

Born, at Bukhárá, A.H. 373 (A.D. 983), died, at Hamadán, A.H. 427 (A.D.

1035). He wrote nearly one hundred books on medicine, most of which are

now lost. He was also a poet, and some of his verses are still extant.



[119] The patriarch’s grief for the loss of his favourite son Joseph

is proverbial among Muslims; but our author has done the “Man of Uz” a

great injustice when he likens him to the blind king, as “waiting with

impatient anxiety”!



[120] A comely youth is always said by Muslim writers to resemble Joseph,

the son of Jacob the Hebrew patriarch, who is considered as the type of

manly beauty.



[121] Firdaus: Paradise. Here it is probably used as the name of an

imaginary city; at all events I cannot find that there is any town of the

name in Persia or India.



[122] Dilbar: “heart-stealer”; and surnamed Lakhí (as will be seen

presently) because she required to be paid a _lakh_ (100,000) of rupís by

every man who sought her society. The rupí (rupee) is nominally valued at

two shillings, but at present it is at considerable discount, being only

worth from 1s. 6d. to 1s. 8d. of English currency.



[123] The fascination of the moth for the flame of the candle is a

favourite simile with Asiatic writers for the love-struck youth and the

beauty whose charms have ensnared him. Sa’dí, in his _Bustán_, has a fine

mystical poem on this subject.



[124] See note on pp. 187-8.



[125] Persian writers are extremely fond of far-fetched conceits. In

describing sunrise they almost invariably borrow metaphors from the

incidents last related. We have had several examples of this peculiarity

in the romance of Nassar, as (pp. 6, 7) in the case of the robbery of

the royal treasury by one of the eunuchs of the haram, where the author

begins his account of next day’s events thus: “When the _eunuch_ of

_night_ had retired and the _prince_ of _morn_ established himself in

the _palace_ of the horizon,” and so forth. And here we have the game of

backgammon between the hero and Dilbar utilised for a description of the

natural phenomenon of sunset.



[126] “Sháh-záda:” _lit._ “king-born,” or son of the king; the usual term

applied to royal princes in Persia.



[127] A crore is 100 lakhs, or ten millions, according to the Hindú

system of numeration; but in Persia it is only 5 lakhs, or 500,000. The

artful Dilbar must have had an enormous amount of wealth, if she lost to

our hero a hundred crores of rupís, which even according to the Persian

computation would be equal to five millions of pounds, English money,

estimating the rupí at two shillings. After this she’d be fully justified

in describing herself, as honest Dogberry does with some pride, as “one

who has had _losses_ too!”



[128] Dívs (or _deevs_) are similar to the Jinn (or Genii) of Arabian

mythology. Some are good demons, being faithful Muslims, but those who

are unbelievers are for the most part malignant and delight in working

evil on mankind.



[129] A quotation from the _Gulistán_, or Rose Garden, of the celebrated

Persian poet and philosopher Sa’dí, ch. iii.—Sa’dí was born, at Shíráz,

towards the close of the 12th century, and died, in his native city,

about 1291 A.D., having lived upwards of a hundred years.



[130] According to the Kurán, because Abraham would not worship idols,

Nimrod cast him into a blazing furnace, which was turned into a

rose-garden—evidently a distorted version of the story of Nebuchadnezzar

and the three devout Hebrew youths, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed-nego.



[131] Standing on one leg in presence of a superior is a mark of profound

respect in India.



[132] This fable is omitted by Garcin de Tassy.



[133] It is the common belief in the East that pearls are formed in the

oyster out of drops of rain falling into it when the shells are open.

This notion is the subject of a mystical poem in Sa’dí’s _Bustán_, or

Garden of Odours, Book iv, which has been thus translated:



“A drop of rain trickled from a cloud into the ocean; when it beheld the

breadth of its waters it was utterly confounded.



‘What a place this sea is, and what am I? If it is existent, verily I am

non-existent.’



Whilst it was thus regarding itself with the eye of contempt, an oyster

received it into its bosom.



Fortune preferred it to a place of honour; for it became a renowned royal

pearl.



Because it was humble, it found exaltation;—it knocked at the door of

nonentity, that it might arise into being.”—Robinson’s _Persian Poetry

for English Readers_, p. 328.



[134] Here our author makes the courtesan Dilbar discourse most

eloquently and in a highly moral strain. It has always been much easier

to preach than to practise, I ween!



[135] Good Muslims never commence any undertaking of importance or danger

without first reciting the formula—which is also invariably placed at the

beginning of all their writings—“In the Name of God, the Merciful, the

Compassionate!” (_Bismillahi er-rahmani er-rahimi_).



[136] “That a salamander is able to live in flames,” says Sir Thomas

Browne, “to endure and put out fire, is an assertion not only of great

antiquity but confirmed by frequent and not contemptible authority.…

All which notwithstanding, there is on the negative authority and

experience.… The ground of this opinion might be some sensible resistance

of fire observed in the salamander; which being, as Galen determineth,

cold in the fourth and moist in the third degree, and having also a mucus

humidity above and under the skin, by virtue thereof it may a while

endure flame, which being consumed it can resist no more.”—_Enquiries

into Vulgar and Common Errors_, ch. xiv.



[137] See the note on pp. 108-9.



[138] To swear by Solomon, especially by Solomon’s signet-ring, is the

most binding oath which the jinn and the fairies can take, since its

breach would entail a dreadful punishment.



[139] “Hammála” may mean a woman who carries: Garcin de Tassy calls her

“porteuse.”



[140] “Praiseworthy”: “Belauded.”



[141] Badakshán is a mountainous tract of country in Afghán Túrkestán,

famous for mines yielding the finest rubies, lapis-lazuli, etc.



[142] The romance writers of mediæval Europe, after the first Crusade,

drew largely from Oriental fictions. Thus, for example, in _The Boke

of Duke Huon of Burdeux_, among the many wonders which the hero sees

in his journey to the court of the Soudan of Babylon is an underground

river, the bed of which was composed of the most precious stones, which

possessed a variety of curative properties.



[143] “The heavenly orbs, according to the principles of philosophy,

possess a reasonable mind.”—_Akhlák-i Jalálí._ “This,” remarks W.F.

Thomson, the translator, “is inferred from continuity of motion and

influence without perceptible external cause, and it seems men’s earliest

conclusion and the origin of star-worship. Admitting Plato’s notion

that souls were introduced, or perhaps kindled, by the heavenly bodies,

nothing could be more reasonable than to attempt, by observation and

induction, to ascertain the influence contributed by each. The premises

only are to be attacked; and for these the chiefs of classical as well as

Oriental literature are responsible.”



[144] The cypress, which is in Europe associated with sombre ideas, is by

Asiatics commonly employed as a comparison for the graceful stature of a

pretty girl.



[145] Muslims are perfectly familiar with the principal narratives in the

Bible, from which the Kurán is largely composed.



[146] Asiatic ladies tinge the inner edges of their eyelids with

lamp-black in order to increase the lustre of the eyes; it is believed,

moreover, to strengthen the sight.



[147] See note 1, p. 250.



[148] This incident is common to folk-tales almost everywhere: sometimes

it is a bird who gives the hero one of his feathers, which serves the

same purpose.



[149] This was a very unusual condescension on the part of the monarch,

even though in honour of his own sons. The common practice (in Persia)

is for the sháh to send a deputation the distance of two days’ journey

to meet and welcome any distinguished visitors. The deputation is called

_istikbál_, and those sent, _písh váz_, openers of the way. A day’s

journey is twenty miles.



[150] Kettle-drum.



[151] “Happy.”



[152] Similar question and answer occur in the story of “The Sultan

of Yaman and his Three Sons,” one of the tales translated by Jonathan

Scott from the Wortley-Montague MS. text of the _Alf Layla wa Layla_, or

Thousand and One Nights, which are comprised in the sixth vol. of his

edition of the _Arabian Nights Entertainments_, p. 81.



[153] According to Muslim ideas, the shooting stars are stones flung

at demons who approach the portals of heaven to listen to the divine

communications; and Satan is “stoned” every year by the pilgrims at

Makka—for which see Burton’s _Pilgrimage to Meccah and Medinah_.



[154] Chief of police.



[155] See note on p. 46.



[156] Núshírván, surnamed _’Adil_, or the Just (the Chosroes of the

Greeks), was of the Sassanian dynasty of ancient Persian kings, and died,

after a very prosperous reign of 48 years, A.D. 579. Muhammed was wont

to boast of his good fortune in having been born during the reign of so

wise and just a prince. His dying injunctions to his son and successor,

Hormuz, are thus recorded by Sa’dí (_Bustán_, B. i): “Be thou in heart

the guardian of the poor. Be not in bondage to thine own ease. No one

will live in comfort in thy kingdom if thou desirest only thine own

comfort and sayest, ‘It is enough.’ He will receive no praise from the

wise who passeth his nights in sleep whilst the wolf is amidst his flock.

Keep watch over the necessitous poor; for the peasant it is from which

the king deriveth his throne. The king is the tree, the peasant the root:

the tree, O my son, deriveth its strength from the root.”



[157] Garcin de Tassy omits this curious story, and another which

immediately follows in the original text, related by the vazír, of the

Darvesh and the Nightingale, which I also omit here, as a much better

version will be found among the PERSIAN STORIES which follow the present

romance.



[158] “Beautiful kingdom.”



[159] In other words: “Succeed in this affair without compromising my

dignity; according to the proverb, ‘Take care while shunning one evil of

falling into another.’”—See Roebuck’s _Persian and Hindústaní Proverbs_,

part ii, p. 118.



[160] The canopy of a howdah, or chair for riding on an elephant, called

_hauda-amári_—canopied howdah.



[161] See note on page 271.



[162] This recalls an incident in the Indian story of the virtuous

Devasmitá, who entraps four suitors, during her husband’s absence on

a trading journey, who visit her in succession, and, while they are

insensible from the effects of a narcotic mixed with their wine, causes

each to be branded on the forehead with a hot iron. The suitors return

to their own country, where the lady’s husband is residing for a time,

and Devasmitá soon after sets out thither, disguised as a man, where

she claims all four as her slaves in presence of the king, causing

them to remove their head-gear and expose the brands; and she “lets

them off” on payment of a large sum of money.—(Tawney’s translation of

the _Kathá Sarit Ságara_: Ocean of the Streams of Story, vol. i, pp.

85-92.)—Henceforward the four rascally brothers of Táj ul-Mulúk are, as

the Icelandic story-tellers say, “out of this tale.”



[163] “Jasmine-face.”



[164] Shírín was the beautiful wife of Khusrau Parvíz, king of Persia,

and Farhád, a famous sculptor, was madly enamoured of her. All the

sculptures on the mountain of Bistán are ascribed to Farhád’s chisel.

According to the popular tradition, King Parvíz promised that if he cut

through the rock and brought a stream that flowed on the other side of

the hill into the valley the lovely Shírín should be his reward. He was

on the point of completing his Herculean labour when Khusrau Parvíz,

fearing to lose Shírín, sent an old woman to inform him that she was

dead. Farhád was then at the highest parts of the rocks, and on hearing

this false report in despair threw himself down headlong, and was dashed

to pieces.—The story of Farhád and Shírín is the subject of several

beautiful (often, if not always, mystical) Persian and Turkish poems.



[165] G. de Tassy remarks that “a declaration of love on the part of

a woman, and especially one so passionate, is not according to our

manners, but it is so to those of the East; and the numerous Asiatic

stories which have been translated into European languages have rendered

it quite familiar to us.”—A very remarkable example is furnished in the

immortal tale of Nala and Damayanti (_Mahábhárata_, section lvi of the

“Vana Parva”), where the virtuous and beautiful daughter of Vidharba thus

addresses Nala: “O King, love me with proper regard, and command me what

I shall do for thee. Myself and what of wealth is mine are thine. Grant

me, O exalted one, thy love in full trust. O giver of the proper honour,

if thou forsake me who adore thee, for thy sake will I resort to poison,

or fire, or water, or the rope!” Bakáwalí “spared her maiden blushes” (if

she _could_ blush) by expressing her love for our hero in writing; but

Damayanti—all truth and innocence—made her avowal to the god-like king

of the Nishadhas in words from her own sweet mouth: and who would not be

enraptured to hear such a soft confession made to him by such a peerless

Queen of Beauty?



[166] Not the _images_ in Chinese temples, which are described by

travellers as very hideous, but the beautiful women of China. Persian

poets often term pretty girls _idols_, and themselves _idolators_, for

worshipping them.



[167] _Surma_ is the black ore of antimony, or ter-sulphide. The Muslim

men apply antimony to their eyelids, but their women use _kohl_, or

lamp-black, for this purpose. It is a popular belief among Indian

Muslims that the finest kind of _surma_ comes from Arabia—from the hills

of Sinai or Tur, etc. They have a legend that when Moses was on Mount

Sinai he asked that the glory of God should be shown to him. He was

answered that his mortal sight could not bear the glory; but through

a chink of the rock a ray of light was allowed to fall on him, and

the rock on which the ray fell was melted into antimony. (Balfour’s

_Cyclopædia of India_.)—There is a curious legend current in the Panjáb

regarding the origin of the antimony which is found on the summit of

Mount Karanglí, near Pind Dádan Khán, in the Jhelan district. A fakír

(religious mendicant) once came from Kashmír and asked the name of the

mountain, and was told that it was called Karanglí. He at once exclaimed:

“_Karanglí sone ranglí!_” that is, Karanglí the gold-coloured; whereupon

the mountain became all gold. This frightened the good people of the

neighbourhood, who dreaded that the place should become a general

battle-field for the sake of the gold. So the fakír said: “_Karanglí

surme ranglí!_” that is, Karanglí the antimony-coloured, upon which the

mountain became all antimony. This antimony is now to be found on the

top of it, but as it is surrounded by precipices the antimony cannot be

reached, and so the people have to wait until pieces of it are washed

down by the rains. When procured it is most valuable, and will, if used

for eight days, restore to sight all those who have become blind through

sickness or accident. It cannot, however, cure those who are born blind.



[168] “Beautiful Lady”—“Lady Beautiful.”



[169] “Happy King”—“King Prosperous.”



[170] See note 1, page 259.



[171] In a Buddhist work entitled _Wæsakára-sataka_ (a hundred stanzas)

is the following: “The evil man is to be avoided, though he be arrayed

in the robe of all the sciences, as we flee from the serpent, though

it be adorned with the _kantha_ jewel.” The natives of Ceylon, says

Spence Hardy, believe that this gem is to be found in the throat of the

_nayá_. “It emits a light more brilliant than the purest diamond; and

when the serpent wishes to discover anything in the dark it disgorges

the substance, swallowing it again when its work is done. It is thought

possible to obtain the jewel by throwing dust upon it when out of the

serpent’s mouth; but if the reptile should be killed to obtain it,

misfortune would certainly follow.”—_Eastern Monachism_, p. 316. (See

also note, _ante_, p. 232.)



[172] A kind of hill-starling.



[173] Our hero understood bird-language, and the author has probably

omitted to mention that he acquired that knowledge by possessing the

snake-stone. In the folk-tales of all countries we find that great

benefits accrue to a forlorn hero by his overhearing the conversation

of birds or beasts, and of demons in Indian stories. The reader will

find much to interest him on this subject in an able paper on the

Language of Animals by Mr. J. G. Frazer in the first vol. of the

_Archæological Review_, 1888; and I may be permitted to refer him also to

my Introduction to John Lane’s _Continuation of Chaucer’s Squire’s Tale_,

published for the Chaucer Society.



[174] The transformed prince having given birth to a child was

ceremonially unclean for the period of forty days.—See the note on pp.

140, 141.



[175] Here our author exhorts his readers.



[176] Káf is a range of mountains which, like a vast ring, enclose the

Circumambient Ocean (_Bahru-’l-Muhít_) that surrounds the whole earth,

which, according to the Muhammedan cosmography, is flat, not round.

These mountains are composed of green chrysolite, the reflection of

which causes the greenish (or blueish) tint of the sky. (See Mr. E. J.

W. Gibb’s _Ottoman Poems_, note 6.)—“From Káf to Káf”: from end to end

of the earth.—Bistán is the famous mountain on which Farhád chiselled

figures.



[177] “Soul-expander”—“Vivifier.”



[178] “Victorious King.”



[179] Here we have a fairy island called “Paradise,” as we have before

had a city of the same name, where the artful Dilbar resided—p. 244.



[180] A proud and wicked king of Yaman, called Shaddad, according to the

Muhammedan legend, declared blasphemously: “There is no necessity for

Paradise for me: I myself will make a Paradise of which no man can have

beheld the like.” He sent his officers to find out a suitable spot for a

garden, and they discovered such a place on the borders of Syria, where

Shaddad, at an immense cost, caused a palace to be erected of gold and

silver bricks in alternate courses, and adorned with the most precious

stones. In the garden were placed trees of gold and silver, the fruit of

which was amethysts, rubies, and other gems (see also _ante_, p. 166,

note on Treasure-trees); and the ground was strewed with musk, ambergris,

and saffron. They called this place the Rose Garden of Iram. When Shaddad

was about to enter it, accompanied by a vast multitude of troops and

attendants, he was met by the Angel of Death, who forthwith seized his

impure soul, and then the lightnings of heaven destroyed all living

creatures that were there, and the Rose Garden of Iram became hidden from

the sight of men.—In the present romance the abode of the parents of

Bakáwalí is called the Garden of Iram, to indicate its magnificence.



[181] One of the numerous legends told by Muslims regarding Solomon

reappears in the Turkish story-book entitled _Qirq vezír taríkhí_, where

we read that the sage Hebrew king despatched the símurgh—a fabulous bird,

similar to the _rukh_ (or _roc_) of Arabian fictions—to bring the sparrow

to his court. But the sparrow, being then with his mate, refused to obey

the prophet, or his messenger, and vaunted his prowess and strength,

declaring that he was able to pull down Solomon’s palace. When the

símurgh reported this to Solomon he replied: “There is no harm in one

thus bragging in his own house, and before his wife.”—See Gibb’s _Forty

Vezírs_, p. 97 ff.



[182] The _mán_ has varied at different periods and in different parts of

Persia and India; but our author means us to understand that the stone

wielded by the demon was very ponderous—three or four hundred pounds’

weight at the least, which would doubtless be to _him_ as a mere “pebble

out of the brook”!



[183] “Adorner of Beauty”; the wife of Muzaffar Sháh.



[184] Yet we are told that he is “a _little_ lower than the angels”; and

if he was “created perfect,” he has “sought out many inventions”! It is

amusing how Muslim writers exaggerate the “dignity” of man: generally he

is the most contemptible creature on the face of the earth.



[185] Cf. Shakspeare: “tongues in trees,” etc. And the Persian poet

Sa’dí: “The foliage of a newly-clothed tree, to the eye of a discerning

man, displays a volume of the wondrous works of the Creator.”



[186] Joseph, the son of Jacob the Hebrew patriarch.—A most dutiful

little speech this: O the hypocritical young creature!



[187] Although Muhammed strictly prohibited the drinking of wine,

even more potent liquors are indulged in by many Muslims, especially

those of the _shi’ah_ persuasion. The more strict _súnís_ create for

themselves a “paradise of fools” with narcotics, such as _bang_ and other

preparations of which opium is the principal ingredient, satisfying

their “consciences” with the quibble that the holy Prophet does not

forbid its use in express terms—an omission which is probably due to his

ignorance of such deleterious drugs. The old pagan Arabs were inordinate

wine-bibbers, as we learn from their poetry, and sanguinary fights were a

frequent result between rival factions when they assembled from different

districts at Makka. Muhammed at first attempted, by a “revelation” in the

Kurán, to restrain this propensity within reasonable bounds, and finding

this of no effect prohibited wine altogether. It seems to have been a

very ancient custom among Asiatics to drink wine in the early morning,

and in the _Mu’allaka_ poems, which were suspended in the Temple at

Makka before the advent of Muhammed, the “morning draught” is frequently

mentioned, with evident _gusto_. The prophet Isaiah exclaims: “Woe unto

those that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong

drink; that continue till night, till wine inflame them!”—ch. v, 11.



[188] See the note on p. 8.



[189] _Nau Ratn_: “the Nine Gems,” an ornament worn on the arm, which

indicates the only gems that are esteemed as precious. They are: the

diamond, ruby, emerald, sapphire, topaz, pearl, coral, hyacinth,

carbuncle. The inferior gems, such as agate, bloodstone, etc., are mostly

used for signet-rings.—There is a collection of tales, in the Urdú,

entitled _Nauratan_, compiled by Mahjúr, and published at Lucknow in the

year 1811. It consists of nine stories (hence the title, “Nine Jewels”),

which all turn on the deceits (_charítr_) and tricks of women and are

mostly taken from the Book of Sindibád.



[190] Frequent allusion is made in the _Arabian Nights_ and in Eastern

amatory poetry to this singular kind of caress.



[191] The _henna_ of the Persians—see note on page 11. Mehndí is the

_Lawsonia alba_ of botanists, and the water distilled from its flowers is

used as a perfume.



[192] Indra, in the Hindú mythology, is the god of thunder—a

personification of the sky. His paradise is Swerga, the capital of which

is Armaràvati, or Amarnagar in Urdú.



[193] He could not, therefore, have been one of the “immortals,” but of a

race like the jinn or the parís, who are subject to death, though their

existence is prolonged greatly beyond that of mere human beings.



[194] This is quite after the manner of Asiatic despots—and the deity

Indra is here nothing better—and at once recalls a similar incident,

which cost a good man his head: when the daughter of Herodias danced

before King Herod, he was so charmed with that young light-skirt’s

performance that he said to her: “Ask whatsoever thou wilt, and I will

give it thee” (Mark vi, 22).



[195] This transformation will remind readers of the tale of the young

King of the Ebony Isles in the _Arabian Nights_.—The deities of the Hindú

mythology are frequently represented as condemning inferior celestials

who have offended them to be re-born on the earth, in the form of a human

being, or as some beast, bird, or reptile, so to remain for a certain

period. But this punishment of Bakáwalí is more in accordance with Muslim

ideas.



[196] “Mark of Beauty.”



[197] Like the one-eyed young men in the Arabian tale of the Second

Kalander, or Royal Mendicant—only _they_ suffered for their curiosity

while these (as we shall just see) were the victims of a hard-hearted

beauty.



[198] “Picture-like.”



[199] This recalls Milton’s well-worn lines in his description of “our

common mother” Eve:



    “Grace was in every step, heaven in her eye,

    In every gesture dignity and love.”



The “witchery,” or “magic,” of a pretty girl’s eyes is quite as common

a subject of complaint, or admiration, in Western as in Eastern amatory

poetry: by Muslims it is called “Babylonian magic,” because the Chaldeans

were past masters in magical arts.



[200] According to the Hindús, there are ten stages of love: (1) Love of

the eyes; (2) attachment of the mind; (3) the production of desire; (4)

sleeplessness; (5) emaciation; (6) indifference to objects of sense; (7)

loss of shame; (8) distraction; (9) fainting; (10) death!



[201] Betel: the areca or Penang nut palm grown in many parts of the

East Indies. Its kernel is used as a masticatory in India and elsewhere.

The nut is carried in pouches and presented to guests in the houses of

the rich on silver trays wrapped in gold and silver leaf, and in this

form becomes an essential part in all ceremonial visits. Indeed, among

some of the inhabitants of the Eastern Archipelago, to refuse the betel

when offered would give unpardonable offence. It is believed to sweeten

the breath, strengthen the stomach, and preserve the teeth; and when

chewed with betel leaf (the Piper betel, _Linn._) it gives the saliva

a red colour, which it imparts also to the lips and gums (_Balfour_).

The presentation of betel to visitors is a signal that the audience or

interview is ended.



[202] “Blameless”: “spotless.”



[203] “Bright.”



[204] See page 299.



[205] The story of Joseph and Potiphar’s wife, Zulaykhá (which was her

name, according to Muslim legends), is a favourite subject of several

Persian poems. She is said to have visited the young Hebrew slave in

prison, but he would not gain his liberty at the cost of his chastity.

Potiphar is represented to have been a eunuch. In the end Zulaykhá is

united to her beloved Joseph.



[206] _’itr-i gul_—essence of roses. Our term “otto” is a corruption

of _’itr_ or _’attár_, this latter word also signifies a perfumer, or

druggist.—Most women, I suppose, are fond of perfumes, but Eastern ladies

are passionately so, and the description of Chitrawat as being so highly

“scented” that the finest odours were diffused around her, is fully

borne out by travellers and Europeans who have resided in Egypt, Turkey,

Persia, etc. The sole nourishment of parís, or fairies, it is said,

consists of perfumes—a pretty idea, if nothing more.



[207] Because these were signs that he was newly married.



[208] A manly, straightforward, even touching statement in defence of his

conduct in peculiar circumstances, and such as is rarely met with in an

Eastern tale. Our author is here at his best, and this is saying not a

little.



[209] “The falling out of faithful friends renewing is of love!”



[210] The doctrine of metempsychosis has no place in the creed of

Islám and it is quite phenomenal to find such an incident as this

in a Muhammedan work. Many Persian and Arabian fictions, like the

present romance, are of Indian extraction, but the Hindú characters of

the originals are always—with only this exception, as well as I can

recollect—changed to good Muslims.



[211] In India early marriages of girls are the almost invariable rule;

indeed they are often married, or betrothed, in infancy. A Bráhman girl

who grows up without being married loses her caste. The duty of choosing

a husband belongs in the first place to her father, and if he be dead,

then to her paternal grandfather if he be alive, then to her brother,

cousin, and lastly to her mother. If she have reached the age of eight

years without having been provided with a husband, she may choose for

herself.



[212] Oriental hyperbole, of which we have a very striking example in the

last verse of the apostle John’s gospel.



[213] Bahrám is the Persian name of the planet Mars; and of all who have

ever borne the name, the Persian king Bahrám-i Ghúr (so called from his

passion for hunting the wild ass) is the most renowned in song or story.



[214] In the East no person ever visits his superior without carrying in

his hand a present of some kind, called the _nazar_ in Persian.—See the

First Book of Samuel, ix, 7.



[215] To wit, _Mulk-i Nighárín_, the country appropriated by Táj

ul-Mulúk, where he caused his grand palace to be erected by the

fairies.—See _ante_, p. 281.



[216] A much greater “crush” than even that in Ceylon!—see preceding page.



[217] See _ante_, notes on pp. 232 and 297.



[218] “Violet.”



[219] “To account for the allegorical passion entertained by the

nightingale for the rose, which is the subject of so much beautiful

imagery in Persian poetry, we must consider,” says Sir William Ouseley,

“that the plaintive voice of that sweet bird is first heard at the

same season of the year in which the rose begins to blow. By a natural

association of ideas they are therefore connected as the constant and

inseparable attendants of the spring. It is probable, too, that the

nightingale’s favourite retreat may be the rose-garden, and the leaves

of that flower occasionally its food; but it is certain that he is

delighted with its odour and sometimes indulges the fragrant luxury (if I

may be allowed the expression) to such excess as to fall from the branch

intoxicated and helpless to the ground.”—_Persian Miscellanies_, p. 91.



[220] The transformation of a man into a bird occurs very often in

Asiatic fictions: there are numerous instances in the _Kathá Sarit

Ságara_ and other Indian collections. This is commonly done by fastening

a string round the victim’s neck, or sticking a pin in his head, and

uttering certain magical words; and by removing the string or the pin the

man is at once restored to his natural form.



[221] Here, in the original, the pious author thus addresses his reader:

“My friend, you are as blind as they! You seek at Heaven’s footstool for

the Being who dwells, without your suspecting it, in the habitation of

your own heart. You seek far, far away, when he is quite near.” Cf. Acts,

xvii, 27.



[222] “Rose-cheek.”



[223] Oriental poetry abounds in conceits of this kind. Thus Wásif, the

celebrated Persian historian and poet, apostrophises his lady-love:

“The impression of the happy moments passed in thy loved presence will

never be obliterated from the tablet of my heart, whilst the world

revolves and the stars continue their course. The pen of intense love

has so vividly written Eternal Affection on the page of my soul, that if

my body languish, nay, even if my life expire, that soft impress will

remain.”—But our own poet Cowley is not a whit less extravagant when he

declares:



    “Let Nature, if she please, disperse

    My atoms over all the universe;

    At the last they easily shall

    Themselves know, and together call;

    For thy love, like a mark, is stampt on all—



    ALL OVER LOVE!”



[224] The _tika_ is a round piece of clay, paint, or tissue on the

forehead of a Hindú, indicating his caste. Amongst Hindús generally it

means the circular mark made with coloured earths, or unguents, on the

forehead. It is curious that this purely Hindú term should have been

retained by a Muslim writer; but it is another indication of the Indian

origin of the romance.



[225] Although Bakáwalí and Rúh-afzá are supposed to be fairies, yet they

act as real flesh-and-blood women. And how like is this charming little

scene between the two affectionate girls to what has doubtless occurred

thousands of times amongst ourselves! If there be, as that shrewd

observer Sam Slick assures us, “a deal of human natur’ in man,” there is,

as certainly, a deal of _woman_ nature in woman all the world over.



[226] For descriptions of the marriage ceremonies among the Muhammedans

of India see Herklots’ translation of the _Qanoon-i Islám_, p. 93 ff.;

_Observations on the Mussulmans of India_, by Mrs. Meer Hasan Ali, vol.

i, p. 352 ff.; and a paper on Hindú and Muhammedan marriage ceremonies,

by Col. C. Mackenzie, in the _Trans. of the Royal Asiatic Society_, vol.

iii, p. 170 ff.



[227] Truly a most promising beginning! Such is the inflated style which

alone is appreciated by the modern Persians and the Muslims of India.

For since the decline of literature in Persia—which began soon after the

death of the justly-celebrated poet Jamí, in A.D. 1492—the compositions

of Persian authors have been chiefly characterised by puerile conceits

and meaningless plays upon words and phrases, for which indeed the

language furnishes every facility. Nevertheless, the reader can hardly

fail to be highly diverted with the following tale, which the writer has

simply re-dressed in his own style, for assuredly he was not its inventor.



[228] Here the author is employing the various processes of the Eastern

bath in describing the chattering of three ladies who have “foregathered”

there.—“The Persian ladies,” says Sir R. Ker Porter, in his _Travels

in Georgia, Persia_, etc., vol. i, 233, “regard the bath as the place

of their greatest amusement; they make appointments to meet there, and

often pass seven or eight hours together in the carpeted saloon, telling

stories, relating anecdotes, eating sweetmeats, sharing their kalyouns

[pipes] and embellishing their beautiful forms with all the fancied

perfection of the East; dyeing their hair and eyebrows; and curiously

staining their fair bodies with a variety of fantastic devices, not

unfrequently with the figures of trees and birds, the sun, moon, and

stars.”



[229] A purely imaginary personage, of course, invented and introduced by

the author, because he had just mentioned a ring set with a fine gem.—The

reader will find many similar absurdities in the course of the narrative,

and I need make no farther remark upon them.



[230] Eastern baths are used by men and women on different days of every

week.



[231] Shamsah is the name of a sorceress who figures in several Asiatic

fictions.



[232] Banafshá: Violet, the name of the girl.



[233] Sums of money mean nothing in an Eastern story: 1000 dínars would

be equivalent to about 500 pounds, English currency; but were the amount

even in dirhams the carpenter would be giving the girl 25 pounds—a

handsome “tip” indeed!



[234] Among Muslims when the moon is new or full is the preferable time

for marriage, but she must be clear of the sign of the Scorpion, which is

considered very unlucky.



[235] Bilkís, according to Muslim tradition, was the name of the

celebrated Queen of Sheba, who visited Solomon “in all his glory.” Many

curious legends, or stories, are related, both by the Rabbins and the

Muslims, regarding Solomon and Bilkís. It is said that Solomon had been

told by some slanderer that she had goats’ feet and legs. In order to

ascertain the fact, he caused the floor of the audience-chamber to be

laid with glass or crystal. When Bilkís entered the chamber and perceived

what looked like clear water on the floor, she gracefully raised the

skirt of her dress a few inches, to save it from being wetted, and

Solomon saw, to his great relief, that she had a pair of “natty” little

human feet. We are told in the Bible that the Queen of Sheba plied the

sage monarch with “hard questions,” but he answered them every one (1

Kings, x, 1-3). So much was Solomon charmed with her sagacity, virtue,

and modesty, that he ultimately married her.—Our friend the Kází, to

mollify his wife, calls her a second Bilkís.



[236] The usual exclamation of a Muslim when he believes the Devil is

playing him some mischievous trick.—See note on page 277.



[237] An abstract of this story will be found in the Appendix.



[238] The carpenter is a curious compound of shrewdness and simplicity:

not content to vaunt his acquaintance with popular tales, he must add

that his father daily passed by a famous school-house—implying that

the _knowledge_ supposed to be thus obtained by his parent had been

transmitted to himself! The Kází is no doubt “all there,” but for his

love of money and jealousy of his artful wife. We have the authority of

a certain noble poet that avarice is “a good old-gentlemanly vice”; but

nobody can say a word in favour of jealousy, the “green-eyed monster,”

who caused the death of sweet Desdemona.



[239] “Put a feather in his bonnet” is not quite the Eastern expression,

though its meaning is thus fairly enough rendered in English: the

carpenter may be said, in Biblical phrase, to have “exalted his horn”—as

the poet Burns has it in his verses on his first visit to Lord Dare, “up

higher yet my bannet!” We used also to say of a man who evidently thought

highly of himself that he “cocked his beaver.”



[240] We have also seen in the story of Sháh Manssur, p. 18, how the

unchaste woman made her husband believe that he was mad.—The Kází

ascribes his imaginary ailment to over-eating, but also, as I understand

it, to the fact that the food of which he partook too freely had been

baked in _hog’s blood_. Swine’s flesh is an abomination to the Muslim as

to the Jew, though the law allows the former to eat any kind of food if

he be pressed by hunger and nothing else can be procured. Possibly the

worthy Kází at the time he was in the house of the deceased Kávas the

Armenian—where hog’s flesh and hog’s blood might well be found—thought

that his condition, as to appetite, justified his eating of the “funeral

baked meats,” though partly composed of the unclean animal.



[241] The muezzin was proclaiming the hour of prayer.



[242] Iblís: Satan. Possibly Iblís is a corruption of Diabolus.—Artful,

intriguing women are often described as being able to pull out the

Devil’s claws, and Satan himself would confess there was no escaping from

their cunning!



[243] There is an omission in this tale which leaves it practically

pointless, since it is not apparent how the lady’s words, “I remember,”

should have sent her husband away without his having opened the chest.

Much the same tale occurs in Mr. Gibb’s translation of the Turkish

story-book, _Qirq vezír taríkhí_ (“History of the Forty Vazírs,” p.

401), in which a man and his wife are playing the game _yad est_, or

“I remember”—a game that may continue for days, and even weeks, the

conditions being that neither must accept of anything from the other

without saying, “I remember”; should one of them do so, the other on

repeating these words becomes entitled to a forfeit. In the Turkish

story, as, quite obviously, in the foregoing, the husband has taken a

_yad est_ with his wife, and is led by the latter to believe that she had

made these preparations as for a feast, and trumped up the story about

having concealed her lover in the chest, in order to take him by surprise

when she should give him the key, and by his omitting to say “I remember”

she should win the forfeit.



[244] Sumbul: Hyacinth, the name of the youth.



[245] An order of religious mendicants.



[246] Narkis: Narcissus, the name of one of his servants.



[247] See note on page 303, and note 1 on page 306.



[248] The Vazír forgot that he had previously told the king that the

Khoja was “notorious for his immorality”—p. 392.



[249] Among the slanderous sayings about women ascribed (falsely, many

of them, no doubt) to Muhammed is this: “They are deficient in sense

and religion, and hence are more disposed than men to practise what is

unlawful.”—In Eastern tales most magical things are done by women.



[250] In the “History of Farrukhrúz”—p. 179—we find that it is dangerous

to open shops before sunrise, because if shopkeepers do so they become

liable to be injured by genii and demons; and it will be seen from the

present story that the wretched narrator had too much cause to regret his

“early opening” practice.



[251] We see from this story that Oriental sharpers are not a whit

behind their European brethren in swindling tricks—such as, despite the

publicity given to them in the newspapers, continue to be perpetrated

every day in great cities.



[252] Mahmúd ruled in Ghazní from A.D. 997 till A.D. 1030. It was at his

request that the Persian poet Firdausí composed his grand epic, the _Sháh

Náma_, or Book of Kings.



[253] It is seldom such a sentiment occurs in Eastern books. Alms-giving

is enjoined by the Kurán on all who have anything to give, and the

rapacity of Asiatic despots has not been conducive to a spirit of

independence among their subjects.



[254] A parasang is a Persian measure of three or four miles, more or

less in different countries.



[255] That is to say, all who are outside the pale of Islám; like

Gentiles with the Jews, and Barbarians with the Greeks.



[256] A most absurd idea, and a foul slander on the “chosen people”—not

to say that _all_ are to be considered as “Israelites indeed,” and so

forth. During the middle ages in Europe it was generally believed that

the Jews, on certain of their religious festivals, stole and murdered

little Christian children!—See the Tale of the Prioress in Chaucer’s

_Canterbury Tales_, and in _Originals and Analogues_ (printed for the

Chaucer Society, pp. 251, 257), “The Boy killed by a Jew for singing

‘Gaude Maria!’” and “The Paris Beggar-boy murdered by a Jew for singing

‘Alma redemptoris mater!’” Such idle stories were invented and diligently

circulated by the monks, and sore persecution had the unfortunate and

innocent Jews to suffer in consequence!



[257] I have read an Indian story very similar to this, in which a

brother and sister, children of a king, are accidentally separated, and

the young prince falls into the hands of a rascal like the Jew in the

above; but I cannot recollect the particular story-book in which it

occurs.



[258] The first chapter of the Kurán; employed by Muslims as the

Paternoster is among Christians.



[259] The Turks have the proverb: “Patience is of God; haste is of the

Devil.”



[260] According to the Kurán, it was a hoopoe, or lapwing, that brought

Solomon a description of Sabá (or Sheba) and of Bilkís, its celebrated

queen.



[261] Yet once more the number _forty_, which the Jews and their Arabian

cousins seem always to have regarded with peculiar veneration—see

pages 140, 155, 188, and to the instances there noted I may here add a

few others. In the Arabian tale of the Third Calender, his voyage is

prosperous for _forty_ days, and he is entertained by _forty_ fairy

damsels, who absented themselves for _forty_ days. In the tale of Aladdin

and his Lamp, when his magic palace has disappeared the sultan allows him

_forty_ days to find it and the princess.—Among other Biblical instances,

“Isaac was _forty_ years old when he took Rebekah to wife,” Gen. xxv, 20,

and Esau was of the same age when he wedded two Hittite damsels, Gen.

xxvi, 34. Eli judged Israel _forty_ years, 1 Samuel, iv, 18. David and

Solomon each reigned _forty_ years, 2 Samuel, v, 4; 1 Kings, ii, 11, xi,

42. The “curious” reader may farther refer to Exodus xxvi, 19; Joshua

xiv, 7; Judges iii, 11, viii, 28, xiii, 1; 2 Samuel, xv, 7; 1 Kings, vi,

17, vii, 38; 2 Kings, viii, 9; Ezekiel xxix, 11, 12; Acts xxiii, 21; 2

Corinthians, xi, 24.—In Wales _forty_ loaves of bread and _forty_ dishes

of butter are a common quantity in the records of rents paid to the

bishops of Llandaff. The fee of a bard for his vocal song at a festival

was _forty_ pence when he was a disciple, and _twice forty_ for a master.

The “unthrifty Heir of Linne,” according to the fine old ballad, tried to

borrow _forty_ pence of John o’ the Scales, who had become the owner of

his lands. And who is not familiar with Wamba’s song, in praise of “Forty

Years,” in Thackeray’s _Rebecca and Rowena_, where we are told that



    “Forty times over let Michaelmas pass,

      Grizzling hair the brain doth clear;

    Then you know a boy is an ass,

    Then you know the worth of a lass,

      Once you’ve come to Forty Year!”



And do we not speak of a buxom dame as “fat, fair, and _forty_”?



[262] Still in man’s attire, of course.



[263] The painter not being permitted to behold her face. This often

occurs in Persian stories; but I have seen many native pictures of

Persian women of all classes, which were evidently portraits and could

not all have been drawn in the manner above described. Judging from those

pictures, the in-door clothing of Persian ladies is extremely scanty; but

it should be recollected that they are not seen in the haram apartments

by any but women and children and very near male relatives. The “full”

dress of European ladies is much more reprehensible than the in-door

dress of their Persian sisters (if indeed that of the latter maybe

considered at all “improper”), since it exposes the greater part of the

bosom and the shoulders and the spine to _public view_!



[264] “Cast thy bread upon the waters,” saith the Preacher, “and thou

shalt find it after many days” (Eccl. xi, 1); but here the reformed

robber finds it—or rather, more than its equivalent—every day. This

notion of the loaves he threw daily into the river reappearing to him in

the form of two celestial youths is certainly of Buddhist origin, and

was, with many other essentially Buddhist ideas, adopted by the Bráhmans

after they got the upper hand of their rivals and drove them out of

India. In the _Hitopadesa_ (Friendly Counsel), a Sanskrit collection of

apologues and tales, Book iii, fab. 10, a pious soldier is directed in a

vision by Kuvera, the god of wealth, to stand in the morning behind his

door, club in hand, and the beggar who should come into the court knock

down with his club, when he will instantly become a pot full of gold.

A similar story is found in the Persian _Tútí Náma_ (Parrot Book) of

Nakhshabí, where a merchant is thus rewarded who had given away all his

wealth to the poor.



[265] In another part of the romance we read of a wondrous stone, called

the Shah-muhra, which, when fastened on the arm, enabled the wearer to

see all the treasures of gold and gems that are hid in the bowels of the

earth.



[266] An abridged and “improved” version of the romance of _Hatim Taï_

was printed at Calcutta about the year 1825, of which a translation—by

James Atkinson, I understand—reprinted from the Calcutta _Government

Gazette_, appeared in the _Asiatic Journal_, March-June 1829. Whoever may

have been the learned Múnshí that made this version, he has certainly

taken most unwarrantable liberties with his original. Thus: Husn Bánú’s

father dies, leaving her “an orphan, _poor_, and unprotected.” She

has the misfortune to “attract the admiration of a darvesh,” whom she

“indignantly spurned from her presence.” The darvesh goes to the king

and complains that “a certain woman has solicited me to marry her, and

not being able to accomplish her object, enraged at my refusal, she has

bitterly reproached and even beaten me”! The king orders her to be thrust

out of the city, and so on. The “man” who appears to her in a vision is

Khoja Khizar, which however is appropriate, that mystical personage being

the tutelary friend of good Muslims in distress. He tells her where she

may find the “treasure of the Seven Kings, buried in seven different

places; seven splendid peacock thrones, adorned with gems beyond all

price, and one precious pearl of unequalled beauty. All these are thine.”

The king on hearing of her “find” attempts to seize the contents of six

of the pits of treasure _by force_, but the gold and gems become serpents

and dragons. In this version it does not appear that the queries, or

rather tasks, were suggested by the nurse. Altogether it is much inferior

to the story as translated by Forbes.



[267] Published at New-York, 1850.



[268] I am greatly indebted to the courtesy of Prof. E. Fagnan, of

the École des Lettres, Algiers, for many interesting and important

particulars regarding this Turkish work, of which several MS. copies

are preserved in the Bibliothèque Nationale, Paris—particulars of which

I have already made some use in _Originals and Analogues of some of

Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales_, printed for the Chaucer Society, and I hope

soon to make still farther use of them in another publication.



[269] Dr. Rieu, of the British Museum, kindly furnished me with the above

outline of the story, so far as it exists in the MS.



[270] See note, page 163.



[271] _The Lost and Hostile Gospels_, p. 83, by the Rev. S. Baring-Gould,

who has pointed out the gross anachronism of making the imaginary

conflict take place in the presence of Queen Helena.



[272] This romance is ascribed by mere popular tradition, and on no solid

authority, to the celebrated poet Mír Khusrau, who died in 1324, A.D.

Authentic accounts of the poet make no mention of any such work, and it

is probably to be assigned to a much later date. An incorrect copy of the

_Chehár Darvesh_ is described in Dr. Rieu’s _Catalogue of the Persian

MSS. in the British Museum_, vol. ii, p. 762, Add. 8917. In the _Bagh o

Bahár_ (Garden and Spring), which is a modern Urdú amplification, by Mír

Amman, not always in the best taste, the Story of the Second Darvesh is

that of the Third in the Persian original.



[273] In another Persian version, translated by Jonathan Scott, in his

_Tales, Anecdotes, and Letters from the Arabic and Persian_, p. 253,

the prince happens to see the merchant’s wife in her litter, returning

from the pilgrimage to Makka, and falls desperately in love with her. He

afterwards makes the acquaintance of the merchant, who on learning the

cause of his illness divorces his wife and makes her over to the prince.

The rest of the story is much the same as the above, excepting that the

prince does not put the merchant’s “luck” to trial but at once receives

him heartily and restores to him his wife, whom he had adopted as his

sister.



[274] The story is told in the first person, and the youth does not give

his name, which is rather awkward in making an epitome of it.



[275] Iswara signifies Lord, Master, but is a designation by the Hindús

for the particular deity, Bráhma, Vishnú, or Siva, whom they regard as

the Supreme Being. In Southern India it is generally applied to Siva,

also called Mahádeva.—_Balfour._



[276] It is significant that the “maxims” of the beggars are identical

in the Latin story, in Gower, and in the version from Western India. In

Gower one beggar cries:



    “Ha, Lord, wel may the man be riche

    Whom that a king list for to riche”;



the other exclaims:



    “But he is riche and wel bego

    Whom that God wold sende wele.”



[277] In this tale Iram is used as the name of an island of the “upper

world,” not that of a garden in fairyland—see p. 304.



[278] _Jazíra-i Firdaus_, that is, the Island of Paradise—see p. 244,

where the crafty courtesan Dilbar is represented as dwelling in a city

called Firdaus; and p. 304, note 3, where it is the name of an island in

fairyland.



[279] See also Dasent’s _Popular Tales from the Norse_: “Boots and the

Troll.”



[280] An adaptation, or imitation, of the Sanskrit series of stories

entitled _Vetálapanchavinsati_, Twenty-five (Tales) of a Vetála, or

Vampyre; called in Hindí, _Baital Pachísí_, and in Tamil, _Vedála Kadai_.



[281] Radloff’s _Proben der Volksliteratur der Türkischen Stamme des

Süd-Siberiens_; St. Petersburg: 1870; iii, 389.—The story is also

found in the Hebrew _Talmud_: Two slaves are overheard by their master

conversing about a camel that had preceded them on the road. It was blind

of an eye, and laden with two skin bottles, one of which contained wine,

the other oil. (Hershon’s _Talmudic Miscellany_.)—See also M. Zotenberg’s

_Chronique de Tabari_, t. ii, 357-361.



[282] In a curious catch-penny imitation of the _Seven Wise Masters_,

compiled by one Thomas Howard, about the end of the 17th century, or

early in the 18th, entitled the _Seven Wise Mistresses_ (of which I

possess a well-thumbed copy printed in black letter), the story is told

of a lady, and a lion who became attached to her in gratitude for her

having pulled a thorn out of his foot—Androcles in petticoats! The lion

kills a bear that would have slain the lady’s father, and the steward

coming up and finding the old gentleman lying prone on the earth,

apparently dead, but, as it turns out, only in a swoon from sheer fright,

forthwith kills the lion.



[283] _Mahábhárata_, Book iii (‘Vana Parva’), section lxi.—Dean Milman

has rendered the ever fresh story of Nala and Damayanti into the most

elegant English verse.



[284] Possibly Shakuni used loaded dice when it came to his turn to

throw. “Some of the virtues may be modern,” says Lord Lytton (I quote

from memory), “but it is certain that all the vices are ancient: cogged

dice were found at Pompeii!”



[285] The _Mahábhárata_ of Krishna-Dwapayana Vyasa. Translated into

English Prose by Protáp Chandra Roy. Now in course of serial issue at

Calcutta. _Sabha Parva_, fasic. xi, pp. 155-172; _Vana Parva_, fasic.

xiv, pp. 174-177; 230.



[286] Translated by the Rev. Chas. Swynnerton, in the _Folk-Lore

Journal_, vol. i, 1883, pp. 134-139.—The same story will be found, at

much greater length, in Captain R. C. Temple’s most valuable collection,

_Legends of the Panjáb_, vol. i, p. 48 ff.



[287] Chaupúr is the game of chess, played with 16 pieces, and throwing

dice for each move. For a full description of this game see Captain R. C.

Temple’s _Legends of the Panjáb_ vol. i, p. 243.



[288] Kokilan: “Cooing-dove.”



[289] The tragical story of Kokilan, with variants, will be found, under

the title of “The Lover’s Heart,” in my _Popular Tales_, &c., vol. ii, p.

187 ff.



[290] _Popular Tales and Fictions_, vol. i, p. 262 ff.



[291] I follow M. Dubois’ transliteration of the proper names.



[292] Yakshas, in the Hindú mythology, are a species of jinn, who are

ruled over by Kuvera, the god of wealth.



[293] Paddy (or pádí) is unhusked rice.



[294] Abridged from Protáp Chandra Roy’s translation of the

_Mahábhárata_, fasciculus xxxiv, pp. 543-553.



[295] “Whether a carbuncle (which is esteemed the best and biggest of

rubies) doth flame in the dark,” says Sir Thos. Browne, in his _Enquiries

into Vulgar and Common Errors_, B. ii, ch. v, “or shine like a coal in

the night, though generally agreed on by common believers, is very much

questioned by many.” On this Wilkin, the editor of Browne’s works, 1835,

vol. ii, p. 354, remarks: “That which Sir Thomas much doubted has since

been subjected to the test of repeated observations and many curious

experiments, by which the phosphorescence of the diamond, sapphire, ruby,

and topaz, as well as of many minerals and metals, and various other

bodies, is fully established. Mr. Wedgewood has treated the subject fully

in the 82nd vol. of the _Philosophical Transactions_. This luminous

property, which seems to be strictly phosphoric, is made apparent by

subjecting the body in question to heat in various ways. Several fluids

(oils, spermaceti, butter, etc.) are luminous at or below the boiling

point: minerals and other bodies become so by being sprinkled on a thick

plate of iron, heated just below visible redness. The gems and several of

the harder minerals emit their light upon attrition.”



[296] The _Sham ha-maphrash_, or _Nomen tetragrammaton_—see the note on

page 163.



[297] Rev. S. Baring-Gould’s _Lost and Hostile Gospels_, pp. 77, 78.



[298] See the old English translation, from the French, by Lord Berners,

_The Boke of Duke Huon of Burdeux_, ably edited by Mr. Sidney L. Lee for

the Early English Text Society, 1887, p. 153.



[299] In the _Catalogue des Manuscrits et Xylographes Orientaux de la

Bibliothèque Imperiale Publique de St. Petersburg_, 1852, p. 410, this

tale is described as a separate romance: ‘Histoire de Khavershah et de

Mihr et Máh, ou de Roi de l’Orient, et du Soleil et de la Lune’; the only

variations being that in place of the devotee is a philosopher called

Abid; and Mukhtarí is the name of the minister of the King of Maghrab,

the father of the original of the picture.—There are several mystical and

erotic poems in Hindí also entitled _Mihr ú Máh_: see Garcin de Tassy’s

_Histoire de la Littérature Hindouie_, second edition, tome i, 179, 187,

and iii, 47.



[300] The self-same story also occurs in the Calcutta printed Arabic text

of the ‘Thousand and One Nights,’ with no variation save that instead of

smoked eels the husband gives his wanton wife a fresh fish to cook for

his dinner on a Friday (the Muslim Sabbath), and then goes out. When the

woman returns on the next Friday her husband begins to scold her, but she

makes an outcry which brings in the neighbours, and showing them the fish

still _alive_—she had, I suppose, either kept it in water or procured

another one; though, how her husband came to give her a live fish does

not appear—he is considered mad and loaded with fetters. (See Sir R. F.

Burton’s translation, vol v, p. 96.)



[301] This seems to be an imperfect version of the story to which the

Trick of the Kází’s Wife belongs, with the underground passage somehow

omitted.



[302] It has not hitherto been found in any Arabic text of the ‘Book of

the Thousand Nights and One Night,’ but there can be no doubt of its

Asiatic origin.



[303] If there are but four players, and three have already been

appointed as king, minister, and culprit, it surely follows that there

is no necessity for the fourth to throw the sticks at all; else, if the

others play along with him at throwing for the “honest man,” their former

positions might, and probably would, be changed. Evidently Mr. Knowles

has here described the game as it is played by any number of boys, so

that when it came to throw for the “honest man,” the three already

appointed would stand out and all the others play.



[304] In the _fabliau_ (Méon’s edition of Barbazan, 1808, iii, 126) the

little bird says:



    “Il a en mon cors une piere,

    Qui tant est précieuse et chiere,

    Bien est de trois onces pesans;

    La vertus est en il si grans,

    Qui en sa baillie l’aroit,

    Jà riens demander ne saroit,

    Que maintenant ne l’éust preste.”



[305] _Lydgate’s Minor Poems_, in vol. ii of the Percy Society’s

publications, p. 179 ff.—Ritson, the censorious, styles honest Dan

Lydgate “a voluminous, prosaic, drivelling monk.” This is hard measure.

That the drivels is just as true as it would be to say that Ritson had no

gall in his composition. That he is sometimes prosaic can’t be denied;

but he has many fine passages of true poetry. If to be voluminous be a

sin—then may Heaven pity our popular novel-spinners!



[306] _Anvár-i Suhaylí_, by Husain Vá’iz al-Káshifí. Translated by Edward

B. Eastwick, 1854. Ch. i, story 19.



[307] Le Grand omits the bird’s lay, of which these verses are merely the

exordium.









INDEX.





    Abraham and Nimrod, 253.



    Abú Síná (Avicenna), 242.



    Afríts, 168.



    Ahmed, 238.



    Aino Folk-Tales, 503.



    Ainsworth’s Old Saint Paul’s, 523.



    Akhfash and his Goat, 177.



    Akhlák-i Jalálí, 264.



    Alakésa Kathá, xxix;

      a different Tamil story, xxx.



    Alakésa, King, 193.



    Albanian Tales, 539.



    Alexander, Romance of, 167.



    Al-Faraj ba’d al-Shiddah, 474, 493, 547.



    Alf Layla wa Layla—_see_ Thousand and One Nights.



    Alfonsus, Peter, 482, 564.



    Alí, Muhammed’s son-in-law, 238.



    Ali, Mrs. Meer Hasan, xxi, 175, 216, 351, 531.



    Almsgiving enjoined by the Kurán, 430.



    Amári, 284.



    Antimony, Legends about, 292.



    Anvár-i Suhaylí, 566.



    Anvarí, The Persian poet, 175.



    Apocryphal Gospel of the Saviour’s Infancy, 556.



    Apollonius Tyanæus, 541.



    Arabian Nights—_see_ Thousand and One Nights.



    Arbuthnot, F. F., xxiii.



    Archæological Review, 299.



    Archery feats, 100.



    Ashrafí, a gold coin, 43.



    Asiatic Journal, 470, 513.



    Astrologers’ Predictions, xxxviii, 175.



    Astrology, 8, 12, 175, 240, 313, 362.



    Atkinson, James, 470.



    Avaiyar, The Tamil poetess, xxx.





    Babylonian magic, 324.



    Backgammon, 250, 522.



    Badakshán, 263.



    Bagh o Bahár, 478, 495.



    Bahá-ed-Dín Zuhayr, 164.



    Bahár-i Dánish, 569.



    Bahrám, 339.



    Bakáwalí, Romance of: Persian and Urdú versions and translations, xxxv;

      its construction, 519, 571.



    Bakhtyár Náma, xxxi, 8.



    Balfour’s Cyclopædia of India, 226, 292, 325, 492.



    Bambú-rice, 231.



    Banafshá, 343, 359.



    Bandow, C. J., 545.



    Barbary Tales, 498.



    Barbazan’s Fabliaux, 549, 565, 566, 570.



    Baring-Gould’s Lost and Hostile Gospels, 476, 542.



    Barlaam and Joasaph, 563.



    Basset’s Contes Populaires Berbères, 498.



    Bath, Eastern Ladies at the, 356.



    Bazár-Master’s Wife, 376, 548.



    Beal, Dr. Samuel, 516.



    Beggar, The Blind, 402.



    Bebelianæ Facetiæ, 551.



    Beggars, The Two, 492.



    Benfey school of folk-lorists, xx.



    Bengal, Folk-Tales of, 504.



    Beryn, Tale of, 167.



    Betel, 325.



    Bhaváni, 197.



    Bible, xxi, 27, 70, 140, 212, 218, 253, 310, 313, 320, 339, 340, 347,

      368, 456, 464, 568.



    Bilkís, Queen of Sheba, 367, 450, 473.



    Billah, Al-Mu’tasim, 93.



    Bird, The Gardener and the, 448, 563.



    Bird-language, 299.



    Bird-Maidens, 58, 476.



    Birds, Transformation into, 298, 299, 346, 545.



    Bismillah, etc., 259.



    Bistán, 289, 303.



    Biting the cheek, 314.



    Blind Beggar, 402.



    Blind Man’s Story, 60, 464, 477.



    Blind Man, The Ungrateful, 215, 516, 532.



    Blind Men and Elephant, 195.



    Boccaccio’s Decameron, 483.



    Boiardo’s Orlando Innamorato, 167, 548.



    Bráhman and Lion, 254, 518, 531.



    Bráhman and Rescued Snake, 231, 518.



    Bráhman’s Wife and the Mungús, 211, 515.



    Brandan, Voyage of St., 475.



    Brown, John P., 472.



    Brothers, Romance of Four, 530.



    Brothers, The Ungrateful, 149, 152, 493.



    Browne’s (Sir Thomas) Vulgar Errors, 259, 540.



    Buchan’s Scottish Ballads, 545.



    Buddhist works, 8, 297, 515, 563.



    Búlbúl and Rose, 122, 345.



    Burák, Muhammed’s celestial steed, 238.



    Burmese Tales, 545.



    Burton, Sir R. F., xxxii, 277, 512, 550, 561.



    Busk’s (Miss) Sagas from the Far East, 500, 556.



    Bustán of Sa’dí, 245, 257, 278.



    Butler, Samuel, 121.





    Calenders, 385.



    Camel, The Lost, 194, 511.



    Camel-driver’s Story, 531.



    Caylus’ (Comte de) Contes Orientaux, 540.



    Cazotte’s Arabian Tales, 571.



    Cento Novelle Antiche, 560.



    Chamberlain, Basil Hall, 503.



    Chapalá, 325.



    Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales, Analogues of, xxxii, 166, 299, 439, 474.



    Chaupúr, 526.



    Chehár Darvesh, 478, 495.



    Children, Want of, 212, 568.



    Chitrasan, 322.



    Chitrawat, 324.



    Chodzko’s Popular Poetry of Persia, 101.



    Chosroes, 278.



    Clarke’s Sikandar Náma, 238.



    Confessio Amantis, 492.



    Conrad of Wartzburg, 521.



    Contes pour Rire, 551.



    Convivales Sermones, 551.



    Cookery, Kings formerly skilled in, 108, 261.



    Cowley’s amatory poetry, 348.



    Crore (or karor), in Indian and Persian numeration, 251.



    Cypress, 265.





    Damascenus, Johannes, 563.



    Danae, Story of, xxxix.



    Danish Ballads, 523, 545.



    Darveshes, Dancing, 105.



    Darveshes, often rogues, 67.



    Darveshes, History of the Four, 478, 495.



    Dasent’s Popular Tales from the Norse, xxxix, 497, 562.



    Day’s Journey, 271.



    Day’s (Lal Behári) Folk Tales of Bengal, 504.



    Deaf Man and his Sick Friend, 446, 561.



    Decameron, 483.



    Defoe on Fate, xxvi.



    D’Herbelot’s Bibliothèque Orientale, 238.



    Délices de Verboquet, 551.



    Demonologia, 241.



    Dice-playing, 522.



    Dilbar Lakhí, 244.



    Dínar, a gold coin, 47.



    Dirham, a silver coin, 360.



    Disciplina Clericalis, 482, 564.



    Dívs, 253.



    Dog, The Faithful, 206, 509, 513.



    Dog-worshipping Merchant, Story of the, 494.



    Doménichi’s (Lod.) Facetiæ, 551.



    D’Ouville’s (Sieur) Tales, 551.



    Dowson’s Hindú Mythology, 228.



    Dozon’s Contes Albanais, 539.



    Dravidian Nights Entertainments, 544, 545.



    Dubois’ Tamil Panchatantra, 532.



    Dunlop’s History of Fiction, 167, 530.



    Durga, 197.





    Eastern Story-Tellers, xxi.



    Eastwick, Edward B., 566.



    Elephant, Four Blind Men and the, 195.



    Errors, Browne’s Vulgar, 259, 540.



    European Romances—_see_ Romances.



    Eve, Milton’s, 324.



    Expeditions, The Three, 496.





    Fabliaux, 483, 521, 549, 566.



    Facetiæ:

      Bebelianæ, 551;

      Doménichi, 551.



    Fagnan, Prof. E., 474.



    Fairies, not immortal, 318.



    Faithless Wife and Ungrateful Blind Man, 215, 516, 532.



    Falcon, The Faithful, 510, 570.



    Farhád and Shirín, 289.



    Farídún, 69.



    Farrukh, 274.



    Farrukhrúz, History of, 147, 493.



    Fars, or Farsistán, 69.



    Fate, or Destiny, xxv, 121.



    Fátihá, 447, 561.



    Firdaus, 244, 304, 495.



    Firdausí, 240, 414.



    Fírúz Sháh, 295.



    Fírúz Sháh, Story of, 571.



    Flowers, etc., Magical, 242, 467, 520, 572.



    Folk-Lore Journal, 479, 570.



    Forbes, Dr. Duncan, 455.



    Forbes’ Oriental Memoirs, 215.



    Fortune and Misfortune, xxv.



    Forty, The number, 140, 155, 188, 300, 456.



    Forty Vazírs, History of the, xxxi, xxxix, 3, 158, 306, 383.



    Frazer, James G., 299.



    Friends, The Two, 89, 480.



    Friday, the Muslim Sabbath, 139.



    Fruit, Magical, 220, 298, 507, 517.





    Gambling maniacs, 522.



    Game of Vazír Pádisháh, 557.



    Ganas, xxxiv.



    Ganesa, xxxiii.



    Garcin de Tassy, xxxv, 256, 281, 290, 547, 569, 570.



    Gardener and Little Bird, 448, 563.



    Geldart’s Folk-Lore of Modern Greece, 496.



    Gems from Snakes, 232, 297, 341, 540.



    Gems, Secreting, 299, 541.



    Gems, The Nine, 313.



    Genie and Solomon’s Ring, 163.



    Geomancy, 60.



    German Popular Tales, 521.



    Gesta Romanorum, xxxii, 482, 564.



    Ghatika, 200.



    Gibb, E. J. W., xxxi, 3, 303, 306, 383.



    Gladwin’s Persian Moonshee, 561.



    God, the Merciful, etc., xxxiii, 259, 296.



    Goldsmiths, rogues in stories, 224.



    Gospels, Lost and Hostile, 476, 542.



    Gower’s Confessio Amantis, 492.



    Greek Popular Tales, 496, 498, 540.



    Grimm, The Brothers, 521.



    Guerin de Monglave, 523.



    Gueulette’s Soirées Bretonnes, 511.



    Gulistán of Sa’dí, xxiv, 101, 253, 311.



    Gul-rukh, 347.



    Gunadhya, xxii.





    Hair of demon as a charm, 269.



    Hahn’s Greek Tales, 540.



    Hammalá, 262.



    Hardy’s Eastern Monachism, 297.



    Hartland, E. Sidney, 479.



    Haste and Patience, 449.



    Hatim and his enemy, 478;

      and the thorn-cutter, 569;

      his mother and brother, 455.



    Hatim Taï, Story of, 46, 455, 520.



    Hauda-amári, 284.



    Hazár ú Yek Rúz, 474.



    Head, Shaving the, 172.



    Heavenly orbs, 264.



    Henna, 11, 314.



    Herklot’s Qanoon-i Islám, 351.



    Hermit, The Foolish, 112.



    Herodias’ Daughter, 319.



    Herrtage’s Gesta Rom., 483.



    Hershon’s Talmudic Miscellany, 512.



    Hikáyát-i ’Ajíb ú Gharíb, 474, 546.



    Hindústán—_see_ India.



    Historia Sept. Sap. Rom., 548.



    Hitopadesa, 121, 464.



    Hoopoe (or lapwing) and Solomon, 450.



    Horoscope, 240.



    Horse, The faithful, 507.



    Hospitality, Three Days’, 9.



    Howdah, 284.



    Hubbí’s Persian Tales, 474, 546.



    Humaï, 5.



    Hunter and Dog, 206, 509, 513.



    Hunter’s Imperial Gazetteer of India, 199.



    Húrís, 23.



    Huon of Bordeaux, 264, 518, 521, 544.



    Husain Vá’iz, 566.



    Husn-árá, 308.



    Hyperbole, Oriental, 339, 340, 348.





    Iblís, 376.



    Idols, Lovely women called, 291.



    ’Ifríts (Afríts), 168.



    Imáms, 238.



    Independent Man, Story of 425, 569.



    India, Balfour’s Cyclopædia of, 226, 292, 325, 492.



    India: Dowson’s Hindú Mythology, 228.



    India, Hunter’s Imperial Gazetteer of, 199.



    India, Marriages in, 337, 351.



    India, Observations on the Mussulmans of, xxi, 175, 216, 351, 531.



    India, Past Days in, 493, 516.



    Indian Antiquary, 489, 499, 541, 543.



    Indian drama, 224.



    Indian Notes and Queries, 197, 515.



    Indian story-books: Alakésa Kathá, xxix, xxxii;

      Bengalí Folk Tales, 504;

      Dravidian Nights Entertainments (Madanakámarájankadai), 544, 545;

      Hitopadesa, 121, 464;

      Kashmírí Folk-Tales, 507, 524, 544, 557;

      Kathá Manjarí, 517;

      Kathá Sarit Ságara, xxi, 166, 287, 346, 516, 558;

      Panchatantra, 532;

      Panjábí Legends, 524, 526, 570;

      Sinhasana Dwatrinsati, 517;

      Vetálapanchavinsati, 500, 518;

      Vrihat Kathá, xxii.



    Irán, 43.



    Indra’s Paradise, 316, 544.



    Infernal Machines, 201.



    Infancy, Apocryphal Gospel of the, 556.



    Infidels, all who are not Muslims, 439.



    Iram, Rose-Garden of, 304, 494.



    Iskandar, 173.



    Istikbál, 271.



    Iswara, 492.



    Italian story-books: Decameron, 483;

      Cento Novelle Antiche, 560.



    ’Itr-igul, 330.



    Ivanhoe, 100.





    Jacob’s sorrow, 242.



    Jamí, the Persian poet, 356.



    Jamíla Khatún, 294.



    Jamshíd, Cup of, 173.



    Játakas, 8, 563.



    Jeshu, Toldoth, 475, 542.



    Jewellers, rogues in stories, 224.



    Jews, Absurd charges against, 439.



    Joseph, the son of Jacob, 244, 312;

      and Potiphar’s Wife, 330.



    Jülg’s Mongolian Tales, 500, 556.





    Káf, Mountains of, 303, 387.



    Kalandars, 385.



    Kálí, the Hindú goddess, 197.



    Kasharkasha, Story of Prince, 69, 479.



    Kashmír, Folk-Tales of, 507, 524, 544, 557.



    Kathá Manjarí, 517.



    Kází and Merchant’s Wife, 414, 555.



    Kází’s Wife, 358, 548.



    Kalmuk Tales, 500, 556.



    Kashank, the Afrít, 173.



    Kathá Sarit Ságara, xxi, 166, 287, 346, 516, 558.



    Khil’at 99.



    Khiyabán-i Rayhán, 571.



    Khizar, 470, 521.



    Khoja, 3.



    King and his faithful Horse, 507;

      and his Falcon, 510, 570.



    King and his Four Ministers: plan of the frame-story, xxix;

      Bengalí oral version, 504;

      Kashmírí variant, 507;

      analogues of the tales, 511.



    King who learned a trade, 434.



    Kings abdicating the throne, 80.



    Kings in Eastern stories, 123.



    Kings going about in disguise, 128, 427.



    Kings, Good Indian, 193.



    Kings, Rapacious, 40.



    Knowles, Rev. J. H., 507, 524, 544, 557.



    Kokilan, 530.



    Kurán, 187, 238, 253, 265, 312, 447, 450, 561.



    Kurán, MS. copies of the, 134.



    Kurroglú, the bandit-poet, 101.



    Kutwál, 278.



    Kutwál’s Wife, 384, 549.



    Kuvera, 464, 535.



    Lady and her Suitors, 287.



    Lady’s Story, 64.



    Lakh, 244.



    Lamp-black as a collyrium, 266.



    Lane’s Modern Egyptians, xxi, 11, 60, 105, 238.



    Language of Birds, etc., 299, 505, 510.



    Laylá and Majnún, 122, 237.



    Leaves of the palm used as dishes, 202.



    Lee, Sidney L., 518, 544.



    Leg, Standing on one, 254.



    Le Grand’s Fabliaux, 483, 521, 549, 565, 566, 570.



    Legrand’s Contes Populaires Grecs, 498.



    Life, or heart, extraneous from the body, 30.



    Life, Water of, 520, 521.



    Lion and Bráhman, 254, 518, 531.



    Llewellyn and his Dog, 515.



    Longfellow, xxvi.



    Love declarations in the East, 290.



    Love, Ten Stages of, 324.



    Love, Victims of, 323.



    Lukman the Wise, 122.



    Luminous Jewels, 540.



    Lydgate, John, 483, 564.



    Lytton, Lord, 523.





    Mackenzie, Colonel Colin, 351.



    Madanakámarájankadai, 544.



    Maghrabí country, 6.



    Magic, Babylonian, 324.



    Magic Staff, 156.



    Magicians, Egyptian, 27.



    Magical Fruits, 220, 298, 507, 517.



    Magical Flowers etc., 242, 467, 520, 572.



    Magical Transformations, 158, 171, 299, 300, 301, 320, 346, 544, 545.



    Mahábhárata, 108, 194, 290, 517, 518, 523, 534.



    Mahámayi, 197.



    Mahbúb ul-Kalúb, xxii, xl.



    Mahfil-árá, xxiii.



    Mahmúd of Ghazní, 414.



    Mahmúda, 262.



    Maina, 298.



    Majnún and Laylá, 122, 237.



    Malay version of the Mungús story, 516.



    Malcolm’s Sketches of Persia, 141.



    Mally Whuppie, 570.



    Mán, a Persian weight, 306.



    Mango Fruit, The wonderful, 220, 507, 517.



    Mangoes, 215.



    Man’s dignity, 310.



    Marie de France, 545.



    Marriages in India, 337, 351.



    Mas’údí, 511.



    Mehndí, 314.



    Men smuggled into harams, 117.



    Metempsychosis, 218, 223, 336.



    Mihr-ú Máh, Story of, 370, 546.



    Miles Gloriosus, 548.



    Mille et Un Jours, 474, 480, 547.



    Milman, Dean, 517.



    Milton’s Eve, 324.



    Moir, James, 570.



    Money in Eastern Tales, 360.



    Moon of Canaan, 312.



    Moth and Candle, 245, 257.



    Mu’allaka Poems, 313.



    Muezzin, 104.



    Muhammad, 9, 23, 67, 69, 106, 112, 187, 238, 312, 401.



    Muir’s (Sir Wm.) Life of Mahomet, 238.



    Mukhlis, of Isfahán, 474.



    Mulk-i Nighárín, 281, 340.



    Mungús, The Faithful, 211, 515.



    Muslim Sabbath, 139.



    Mu’tasim Billah, the Octonary, 93.



    Muzaffar Sháh, 304.





    Nakhshabí, xxii. 464, 517.



    Nala and Damayanti, 108, 290, 517, 518, 523.



    Name, The Ineffable, 163, 476, 542.



    Narkis, 386.



    Nassar, History of, its _motif_, xxv.



    Naubut, 273.



    Nau Ratn, 313.



    Netherlandish Ballad, 545.



    Nightingale and Rose, 122, 345.



    Nimrod and Abraham, 253.



    Nirmalá, 325.



    Nizamí, 173, 238.



    Norse Tales, xxxix, 497, 562.



    Nostradamus, 241.



    Novel writers, xxii.



    Nú Rúz, 173.



    Nushírván, 278.





    Octonary, The, 93.



    Oriental hyperbole, 339, 340, 348.



    Oriental sharpers, 411.



    Orientaux, Contes, 540.



    Orlando Innamorato, 167, 548.



    Ouseley, Sir Wm., 345.



    Oyster and Pearl, 257.





    Paddy, or pádí, 536.



    Pagoda, a gold coin, 196.



    Painter and Woodcarver, Story of, 500.



    Painter’s Story, 53, 471.



    Panchatantra, 532.



    Panjáb, Legends of the, 524, 526, 570, 572.



    Paradise, Expedition to, 183, 500.



    Parasang, 430.



    Parrot-Book, xvii, 464, 517.



    Parvati, xxxiii, 197.



    Patience and haste, 449.



    Payne’s (John) Tales from the Arabic, 561.



    Pearls from rain-drops, 257.



    Penha, G. F. D., 499.



    Perfumes, 330.



    Persian amatory poetry, 348.



    Persian and Hindústání Proverbs, 283.



    Persian Portraits (Arbuthnot’s), xxiii.



    Persian pictures of women, 460.



    Persian story-books: Anvár-i Suhaylí, 566;

      Bahár-i Dánish, 569;

      Bakhtyár láma, xxxi, xxxii, 8;

      Bustán, 245, 257, 278;

      Chehár Darvesh, 478, 495;

      Fírúz Sháh, 570;

      Gul-i Bakáwalí, xxxv;

      Gulistán, xxiv, 101, 253, 311;

      Hatim Taï, 455, 456;

      Hazár ú Yak Rúz (Thousand and One Days), 474, 479, 547;

      Hikáyát-i ’Ajíbú Gharíb, 474, 546.



    Persian writers’ style, 250, 267, 348, 350.



    Petis de la Croix, 474, 479, 547.



    Plautus, 548.



    Poisoned Food, 226, 518.



    Pon, an Indian coin, 206, 568.



    Popular Tales and Fictions (Clouston’s), 30, 474, 476, 515, 530, 531,

     548, 558.



    Porter’s Travels in Georgia, 357.



    Potiphar’s Wife, 330.



    Predictions, of Astrologers, xxxviii, 175.



    Presents to superiors, 340.



    Princess and Dív, 279, 532.



    Prior’s Danish Ballads, 523, 545.



    Proverbs: Roebuck’s Pers. and Hind., 283;

      Sinhalese, about luck, xxvii, xxviii.





    Qanoon-i Islám, 351.





    Radloff’s Siberian Tales, 512.



    Ralston’s Tibetan Tales, xxxi.



    Rámáyana, 108.



    Rasálú, Legend of Rájá, 524, 572.



    Rayhán ed-Dín, 571.



    Rehatsek, E., xxv, xl, 177.



    Religious trickery, 229.



    Reyes, M. de los, 486.



    Rieu, Dr. Chas., xxiii, 474, 475, 478, 546.



    Ring, The, 355, 546.



    Rings, Signet, 70.



    Road to the Mosque, 547.



    Robe of honour, 99.



    Robinson’s Persian Poetry, 257.



    Robles, Isidro de, 551, 561.



    Roebuck’s Persian and Hindústání Proverbs, 283.



    Romance writers, European, 264.



    Romances, European: Alexander, 167;

      Agravain, etc., 530;

      Eglamour (Sir), xxxii;

      Guerin de Monglave, 523;

      Huon of Bordeaux, 264, 518, 521, 544;

      Isumbras (Sir), Octavian, Torrent of Portugal, xxxii.



    Roscoe’s Spanish Novelists, 486, 552, 561.



    Rose and Nightingale, 122, 345.



    Roses, Otto of, 330.



    Roy, Protáp Chandra, 523, 539.



    Rúh-afzá, 304.



    Rukh (or roc), 306.



    Rúm, Country of, 44.



    Rupí, Value of, 244.



    Rustam, 240.





    Sa’dí, the Persian poet, 101, 245, 253, 257, 278, 311.



    Sagas from the Far East, 500, 556.



    Sakhr, the demon, and Solomon, 163.



    Salamander, 259.



    Saman-rú, 288.



    Sambhavi, 197.



    Sastras, The six, 228.



    Sástrí, Pandit S. M. Natésa, xxix, 193, 195, 197, 229, 544, 545.



    Satan, Artful women compared to, 376.



    Satan, the stoned one, 277, 369.



    Satanæ, Tela Ignea, 475.



    Sayf ul-Mulúk, Story of, 370, 547.



    Scottish Ballad, 545.



    Scott’s edition of the Arabian Nights, 275;

      his Tales from the Arabic and Persian, 455, 482.



    Self-made men, 148.



    Serpents, Fight between Two, 53, 471, 475.



    Serpents, Gems in the heads of, 232, 297, 341, 540.



    Setti caste, 207.



    Seven Wise Masters, xxx, 515, 548.



    Seven Wise Mistresses, 515.



    Sexes, The Exchanged, 279, 532.



    Shaddad’s Paradise, 304.



    Sháhábád, 459.



    Shah Bakht and his Vazír, xxxii.



    Shah Manssur, Story of, 12.



    Shah-muhra, 466.



    Sháh-Náma, 240, 414.



    Sháh-záda, 250.



    Shamsah the Witch, 357, 493, 546.



    Shamsah ú Kahkahah, xxiii.



    Shaving the head, 172.



    Shi’ahs and Súnís, 238.



    Shíráz, 69.



    Shírín and Farhád, 289.



    Shoayb, Story of, 118, 489.



    Siberian Tales, 512.



    Siddhí Kúr, Relations of, 500.



    Signet Rings, 70.



    Sikandar-Náma, 173, 238.



    Simon Magus, 476.



    Simurgh, 306, 387.



    Sindibád, Book of (Clouston’s), 5, 515, 518, 548, 569.



    Sinhalese proverbs about luck, xxvii, xxviii.



    Sinhasana Dwatrinsati, 517.



    Sirikop and Rasálú, 524.



    Siva, xxxiii, 212.



    Snake and Bráhman, 231, 518.



    Snake-gems—_see_ Serpents.



    Solomon: as a fisherman, 119;

      his magic carpet, 164;

      his signet ring, 163, 261;

      and the símurgh, 306;

      and the Queen of Sheba, 367, 450;

      and the Water of Life, 520.



    Somadeva, xxi, 216.



    Spanish Novelists, 486, 552, 561.



    Sparks, Capt. T. P., 545.



    Spheres, Music of the, 264.



    Stephenson, R. L., 123.



    Story-Tellers, Eastern, xxi.



    Súfís, 105.



    Sumbul, 384.



    Sun and Moon, Story of the, 370, 546.



    Sunrise, Superstition regarding, 179, 404.



    Surma, 292.



    Swedish Tales, 497.



    Swine’s flesh, 373.



    Swynnerton, Rev. Chas., 524.





    Tabari, Chronique de, 512.



    Táhir and the Witch Shamsah, 493.



    Táj ul-Mulúk, 240.



    Talmudic Miscellany, 512.



    Tawney, Prof. C. H., 287, 558.



    Taylor’s Catalogue of Oriental MSS., xxx.



    Tela Ignea Satanæ, 475.



    Tell’s feat eclipsed, 101.



    Temple, Capt. R. C., 524, 526, 570.



    Thackeray, W. M., 457.



    Thigh, Jewels etc. concealed in, 299, 541.



    Thirty-two Tales of a Throne, 517.



    Thompson’s Akhlák-i Jalálí, 264.



    Thorpe’s Yule-Tide Stories, 497.



    Thousand and One Days, 474, 480, 547.



    Thousand and One Nights, xxxii, 9, 109, 141, 166, 182, 275, 314, 320,

      323, 456, 475, 477, 511, 522, 542, 547, 549, 550, 556, 561.



    Tibetan Tales, xxxix.



    Tika, 349.



    Toldoth Jeshu, 475, 542.



    Tomán, a gold coin, 23.



    Tongues in Trees, etc., 311.



    Topes, or stupas, 226.



    Transformations, Magical, 158, 171, 299, 300, 301, 320, 346, 544, 545.



    Travel, Advantages of, 5.



    Treasure guarded by dragons and serpents, 167, 232.



    Treasure, The Hidden, 442, 558.



    Treasure-trees, 166, 304.



    Treasure-trove, 43, 123.



    Turkish story-books: the Forty Vazírs, xxxi, xxxix, 3, 158, 306, 383;

      Turkish Evening Entertainments, 472, 512;

      Al-Faraj ba’d al-Shiddah, 474, 547.



    Tútí Náma, xxii, 464, 517.





    Unity, Court of, 112.





    Vazír, The Envious, 390, 569.



    Vazír, The Treacherous, 114.



    Vazírs, The Forty, xxxi, xxxix, 3, 306, 383.



    Vedas, The Four, 228.



    Verboquet, Délices de, 551.



    Vermieux’ Indian Tales, 516.



    Vetálapanchavinsati, 500, 518.



    Vijanajara, 199.



    Virtuous Devasmitá and her Suitors, 287.



    Visitors, Meeting, 271, 285.



    Visvesvara, 212.



    Vogelritter, Ballad of the, 545.



    Voltaire’s Zadig, 511.





    Wadia, P. D. H., 489, 543.



    Wagenseil’s Tela Ignea Satanæ, 475.



    Walhouse, M. J., 541.



    Washerman’s Story, 58, 476.



    Wasíf’s amatory poetry, 348.



    Water of Life, 520, 521.



    Way’s Fabliaux, 567.



    Wilson, Dr. H. H., xxix, 571.



    Wind as messenger of love, 164.



    Wine forbidden to Muslims, 312.



    Witch Shamsah, 357, 493, 546.



    Witches and werwolves, 45.



    Wives, Unfaithful, 19, 216.



    Woman-nature, 350.



    Woman, The perfect, 194.



    Woman who knew the language of animals, 505, 510.



    Woman’s love scorned, 13.



    Women, The Three Deceitful, 355, 546.



    Women, addicted to Magic, 401.



    Women’s condition in the Muslim Paradise, 187, 248.



    Woodcarver and Painter, Story of the, 500.



    Wordsworth, xxvi.



    Wrestling in Persia, 110.



    Wright’s Latin Stories, 492.



    Yad-est, Game of, 383.



    Yakshas, 535.



    Yaman, 152.



    Youth, Fountain of, 521.



    Yule-Tide Stories, 497.





    Zadig, 511.



    Zanána, 206.



    Zayn ul-Mulúk, 240.



    Zeus and the new-born Dionysus concealed in his thigh, 543.



    Zotenberg’s Chronique de Tabari, 512;

      his Barlaam and Joasaph, 563.



    Zulaykhá, Potiphar’s Wife, 330.



Printed by WILLIAM HODGE & CO., 26 Bothwell Street, Glasgow.















*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A GROUP OF EASTERN ROMANCES AND STORIES FROM THE PERSIAN, TAMIL AND URDU ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.