  │                                                                │

  │                                                                │

  │  Punctuation has been standardized.                            │

  │                                                                │

  │  Characters in small caps have been replaced by all caps.      │

  │                                                                │

  │  Non-printable characteristics have been given the following   │

  │  transliteration:                                              │

  │      Italic text: --> _text_                                   │

  │                                                                │

  │  This book was written in a period when many words had         │

  │  not become standardized in their spelling. Words may have     │

  │  multiple spelling variations or inconsistent hyphenation in   │

  │  the text. These have been left unchanged unless indicated     │

  │  with a Transcriber’s Note.                                    │

  │                                                                │

  │  The symbol ‘‡’ indicates the description in parenthesis has   │

  │  been added to an illustration. This may be needed if there    │

  │  is no caption or if the caption does not describe the image   │

  │  adequately.                                                   │

  │                                                                │

  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘









                              BROTHER VAN





                                  By



                          STELLA W. BRUMMITT



  Illustration:   (‡ Colophon)



                               NEW YORK

                     MISSIONARY EDUCATION MOVEMENT

                    OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA



                          Copyright, 1919, by

                     MISSIONARY EDUCATION MOVEMENT

                    OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA





                         To the Best Known and

                       Best Loved Man in Montana



                              BROTHER VAN









                               CONTENTS





        Foreword



     I  A Boy at Gettysburg



    II  Explorers of a Continental Purchase



   III  Westward



    IV  A Sky Pilot’s Race Up the Missouri



     V  Brother Van



    VI  A Brother to the Blackfoot



   VII  The Gospel Team



  VIII  Scouting for Uncle Sam



    IX  New Trails



     X  Great Heart with the Indians



    XI  Brother Van and New Montana



   XII  Seventy Years Young









                             ILLUSTRATIONS





   1  William Wesley Van Orsdel, known as “Brother Van.”



   2  The Battle of Gettysburg.



   3  A statue in honor of Sacajawea in Portland, Oregon.



   4  Sitting Bull was dressed in full war regalia.



   5  Historic Fort Benton, where Brother Van ate jerked buffalo

      meat.



   6  Brother Van visiting a Blackfeet medicine lodge.



   7  The ceremony of adoption into the Blackfeet tribe.



   8  Indians were terrifying settlers everywhere.



   9  Brother Van’s dispatch to the Helena _Herald_.



  10  Chief Joseph, leader of the Nez Percés at Big Hole.



  11  Dr. Thomas C. Iliff and Brother Van, who had many adventures

      together.



  12  Brother Van was “hail fellow well met” with the people.



  13  Brother Van shot the herd leader in the head.



  14  The Van Orsdel Home for Nurses at Helena.



  15  Great Heart with a Blackfoot brother.



  16  A copper mine at Butte.









                               FOREWORD





GRATEFUL acknowledgment is hereby given for the interest and

helpfulness shown by many people in Montana while I was collecting

material for this book. To have known Brother Van better has been a

joy, and to have met his beloved people “out where the west begins”

has been a privilege.



The readers of this biography owe much to the Rev. George Logan and to

the Rev. A. W. Hammer, both old-time friends of the pioneer missionary.

From them have come stories and tales of adventure which could not have

been forced from the boyishly modest preacher himself.



The story is sent out with the hope that through it some young people

may add a new name to their list of heroes.



                                                    STELLA W. BRUMMITT.









                               CHAPTER I



                          A BOY AT GETTYSBURG





“NOW, boy, watch and you’ll see one of the sights of the war! Our

troops are going to charge and take that battery.”



It was the first day of the great battle of Gettysburg, July 1, 1863;

and the Confederate cavalry leader, General Jenkins, at his post on a

sheltered hillside, was pointing out to a rough-clad, barefoot boy from

a near-by farmhouse the movements of the troops on the opposite side.



As William Wesley Van Orsdel had heard at home of the battles in which

his ancestors had fought, he may have wondered if some time, he, too,

would march away to war. He had never dreamed that while he was still

a boy one of the most important battles in modern history would take

place in the quiet fields and on the wooded hills surrounding the

little farm where he lived.



The opening of the battle found him ready to take his part whatever

it might be, even though he could not be one of the fighters. He soon

found that there was no lack of opportunity to help. Fearlessly he went

back and forth among the men of both the Northern and Southern armies,

carrying water to the wounded no matter what the color of the uniform

they wore, and relieving the distress of many a stricken soldier.



In the course of one of his errands of helpfulness he suddenly found

himself at the side of the dreaded Jenkins, whose cavalry raids had

made his name a terror to all of the farmers of the region because of

the heavy toll of horses, cattle, and grain which he took from them.

Jenkins’ present orders were to guard the baggage train and hospital

of the Confederate army commanded by General Ewell, and as he waited

at his post he chatted easily with the bright and attractive farmer lad

who showed himself to be so interested in all the stirring events that

were going on around him.



William was a loyal Federal at heart and he felt decidedly

uncomfortable in the presence of the Southerner as he followed the

General’s explanation of what was happening on the adjacent hills. It

was a scene of furious struggle and of seemingly wild disorder upon

which they looked. Now the Federals and now the men in gray appeared

to have control. Then suddenly Jenkins shouted, “Now, boy, watch, and

you’ll see one of the sights of the war!”



A fresh and powerful force of Confederate troops was advancing steadily,

and to his dismay William saw that the blue lines along Seminary Ridge

were giving way. It was one of the brilliant actions of the battle, the

charge of a fiery Southern general, Jubal Early, and the boy’s heart

sank as the Federal positions were overrun and their guns captured. He

could catch glimpses of the men in blue retreating through the streets

of the little town of Gettysburg to the slopes of Cemetery Hill. He hid

from the Confederate general his fear lest the attacking forces might

drive the Northerners even further back, but as the afternoon passed,

the fighting became less violent and when night fell Cemetery Hill was

still in possession of Federal troops.



The following two days were filled with thrilling adventures for the

boy as he saw thousands of men struggling desperately in the valleys

and on the hills where he knew every path and almost every tree. It

seemed very strange to him that these familiar places――Round Top,

Little Round Top, Seminary Ridge, and the peach orchard should suddenly

become of such importance. From the gossip of the village, however, he

knew in general what the Federal commanders had to do, and to many a

scouting party he was able to give valuable information about trails,

roads, and observation points.



Everywhere there were wounded men crying for water and all through

the hot days William hurried from point to point, carrying help and

cheer. Often he was in danger from the heavy shell fire, for Gettysburg

saw the greatest artillery engagement that had ever been known. Five

hundred and sixty-nine tons of shells were hurled by the opposing

batteries in the course of three days. The boy had at one time a moment

of breathless suspense when a cannon ball fell near him, but it failed

to explode. Except for some powder marks on his face, he came through

those trying days without injury.



William’s work was not done when he had spent the daylight hours in

going among the wounded on the field. In the evening, when there was

a lull in the fighting, he went into the village carrying news of the

battle and helping friends whose homes were surrounded by the fury

of the conflict. He was saddened by the death of his friend, Jennie

Wade, a girl of twenty, who had been killed by a chance shot that

came through the door of the house. She was the only resident of

the town killed during the whole battle. The home of another friend,

Josephine Rogers, stood where the thickest of the fight came in the

last two days of the battle. William watched over the safety of this

eighteen-year-old girl, and was able to give assistance and comfort in

the hours of danger.



On the first day, as General Carroll of the Union forces fell back, he

saw the girl at her door and exclaimed, “What are you doing here? This

house is in the trail of the greatest battle of the war. Seek a place

of safety!”



“Mother has gone, but I have bread in the oven. As soon as it is baked,

I will go,” replied Josephine.



When she took the fragrant bread out of the oven, there were so many

hungry soldiers that wanted it that she decided to bake more for the

struggling men. This work she continued for three days, and gave bread

to the troops on both sides. Her home became a refuge for the wounded,

and all the delicacies she could find were placed at the disposal of

the soldiers. On the last day of the battle the house was in the line

of General Pickett’s charge against the Union lines on Cemetery Hill.

From the riddled house the bodies of seventeen men were taken, some in

blue, some in gray; but the nurse and benefactress of both came through

the event without a scratch.



When at last the Confederates were forced to withdraw, after having

struggled gallantly but in vain to drive the Union forces from Cemetery

Hill, and from the adjoining hills now famous in history――Round Top

and Little Round Top――it was found that rarely if ever had armies

suffered such a high proportion of losses. Meade, the Federal commander,

went into the battle with eighty-two thousand men. He lost in killed,

wounded, and missing twenty-three thousand. General Lee had moved on

Gettysburg with about seventy-three thousand men and his losses were

as large as those of Meade if not larger.



  Illustration:   Copyright, Brown Brothers.



                  GENERAL HANCOCK AND HIS MEN NEAR ROUND TOP



                  The Battle of Gettysburg was fought among the

                  hills surrounding William Van Orsdel’s home.



The scenes of daring and of strife in those exciting days of battle

and the talks with the wounded men could not but make a deep impression

on such a thoughtful boy as William Van Orsdel. He saw what men were

given power to accomplish when they held their lives as nothing in the

struggle for the things which they believed to be right. The memory of

those stirring days with the acts of sacrifice and of heroism which he

had witnessed made him long for the time when as a man he could engage

in such deeds of action and of daring as those of the soldiers. With

the thoughtfulness which marked his quiet days on the farm and in the

country school, he now began to look forward to some life task that

would call for hardship and adventure and would make his life of the

largest service to those in need.



There was a dauntlessness in William which was partly due to the

fact that he had pioneer ancestry. His great-grandfather came over

from Holland to New Jersey with the early settlers. His grandfather

settled in Pennsylvania about the time of the Revolution, and William’s

father was born there. His mother came from England, and in the little

farmhouse near Gettysburg, William was born on March 20, 1848. Hard

work and heavy responsibilities fell to the boy early in life, for when

he was but fourteen years old, his father died. He then had the care

of his mother and sister and the management of the farm. Two strenuous

years followed; then his mother died and the children were separated

and taken into the homes of relatives.



William was now cared for by an aunt, whose farm was close to

Gettysburg. The change made it possible for him to attend a better

school and he was proud to become a student of Hunterstown Academy.

Eagerly did he grasp this opportunity to prepare himself to render the

greatest service in whatever life-work should open before him.









                              CHAPTER II



                  EXPLORERS OF A CONTINENTAL PURCHASE





AS William pored over his big geography in the firelight of his

Pennsylvania home, that great stretch of territory vaguely called

the “Northwest” filled his mind with interesting visions of possible

adventures. Another name given to it by his elders, and by the books,

was the “Great American Desert,” and the boy could never hear enough of

the tales that came out of it. He always wanted to learn more about the

Indians, with their strange beliefs and customs, and about the great

brown herds of buffalo that roamed over the plains, and that were being

slaughtered wantonly by white man and red man alike. He day-dreamed

of Indian camps, of the long wagon-trains of venturesome pioneers, of

swift, pony express riders, and of the hardy hunters of wild animals in

the mountains.



“When I am old enough, I am going west,” said the boy to his friends.

“I shall come back to Pennsylvania to live, but I am going to see the

land of Lewis and Clark first.”



The adventures of these explorers had a great fascination for the

schoolboys of that period even as they have at the present time. The

great western land of which William dreamed became known to the world

principally through the journeys of these daring men. William loved

to hear about every one of their wonderful experiences. The story of

the Louisiana Purchase, by which most of these territories had been

acquired by the United States, was a favorite, too. He liked especially

to read about the day when the Louisiana Purchase had the unique

experience of flying three different flags in twenty-four hours. In

1803 Spain ceded all this unexplored land to France. France sold it to

the United States. So in one day the Spanish flag came down and, for

form’s sake, the French flag was put up; and in turn that was lowered

for the flag that has floated over the Purchase ever since, the Stars

and Stripes.



President Jefferson made plans at once for the exploration of the new

domain, and chose as the leaders of the expedition two young Virginia

college men of energy, ability, and high character. They were well

fitted for the dangerous enterprise ahead. None but stout hearts could

have completed the venture, of which William Wesley Van Orsdel and

thousands of other boys were to hear and read many years later. Lewis

was President Jefferson’s secretary and a man whom he loved much.

Jefferson has left this fine appreciation of him: “Of courage undaunted,

possessing a firmness and perseverance of purpose which nothing but

impossibilities could divert from its direction, careful as a father of

those committed to his charge, yet steady in the maintenance of order

and discipline, intimate with Indian character, customs and principles,

honest, disinterested, liberal, of sound understanding, and a fidelity

to truth so scrupulous that whatever he should report would be as

certain as if seen by ourselves.”



The maps showed few cities on the Missouri River when Lewis and Clark

started on their expedition. St. Louis was then forty years old; it

contained less than two hundred houses and about two thousand people,

nearly all of whom were French. These men who started up the Missouri

in the fleet bearing the expedition, little dreamed that from the

territory which they were to explore there would be carved the great

states of Missouri, Kansas, Iowa, Nebraska, South Dakota, North Dakota,

Montana, Idaho, Washington, and Oregon――fertile and prosperous states

from which would come the necessities to strengthen nations in need in

the great war more than a hundred years later. Not only wheat, sugar,

and cattle, but timber, and metals to renew the world’s shipping, were

to come from those western fields, forests, and mines.



The fleet consisted of three craft; the largest was a keel-boat,

fifty-five feet long, drawing three feet of water, carrying a sail, and

propelled by twenty-two oars, eleven on each side. It had a forecastle

and a cabin guarded by breastworks to protect against Indian attacks.

The other two were piroques. These were boats bound together side by

side and floored over; one with seven oars, another with six oars, and

both carried sails.



Besides Lewis and Clark, the party consisted of three sergeants――Ordney,

Pryor, and Lloyd――twenty-three privates, two interpreters, and a

Negro servant. The interpreters were Charbonneau and his Indian wife,

Sacajawea. The Negro, whose name was York, was Clark’s slave and

body servant. Many heroes were discovered in that company before it

had reached the waters of the Pacific. There is just one heroine,

Charbonneau’s wife, Sacajawea, or the Bird Woman. By birth she belonged

to the Shoshone tribe. When a little girl she had been taken prisoner

in a war between the Minnetarees and Shoshones and sold to a traveling

Frenchman, who was a roving hunter and guide. He brought her up as a

slave and afterward married her. Sacajawea guided the expedition and

acted as interpreter, all the while giving her baby tender and watchful

care. She received no gift when the party disbanded, but to-day she

lives in the grateful memory of the West as one of its real explorers

and a true benefactress. In the city park in Portland there stands a

statue in honor of this brave Indian matron.



  Illustration:   A STATUE IN HONOR OF SACAJAWEA IN THE CITY PARK,

                  PORTLAND, OREGON



The romantic episode of the return of this woman guide to her own

tribe was one of the strange incidents of the expedition. Over unknown

trails the daring scouts went in the untracked wilderness. It is

hard to realize the suffering they endured from hunger, sickness, and

other dangers. Their advance along the upper Missouri is of particular

interest here. One day Captain Lewis, who was traveling on foot in

order to lighten the canoes, climbed a high cliff and there before his

glad eyes lay the “Land of the Shining Mountains,” for such was the

Indian name for the region which was afterward known as Montana. As

they pressed on, the roaring of water sounded in the distance, and soon

the great falls of the Missouri came into view. Here the river drops

over four hundred feet in a ten-mile stretch. The map that Lewis and

Clark made of this section is so accurate that in 1892, when William

Van Orsdel resided temporarily in the town of Great Falls, it was

reproduced in facsimile with the modern improvements added. It was near

the falls that Sacajawea recognized the spot where she had been taken

prisoner by the Minnetarees.



Just at that point in their progress the expedition was in need of

horses for the journey across the mountains, and taking Sacajawea,

Captain Clark set out to find her people and to buy horses from them.

Captain Lewis went with another detachment on a different course. After

much journeying he found Chief Cameahwait and gave him an American

flag as an emblem of peace. The chief took them to a leathern lodge,

smoky and ancient, and seated them on green pine boughs covered with

antelope and buffalo skins. A warrior in splendid attire kindled a fire

in the center of the lodge; the chief produced a pipe and tobacco; the

warriors took off their moccasins, showing the white men that they were

expected to remove their shoes.



When all was in readiness and the circle completed, the chief lit his

pipe. He then made a speech, and at its close he indicated the four

cardinal points with the stem of his pipe, beginning with the east and

ending with the north. He handed the pipe to Lewis, who supposed that

he was to smoke, but the chief drew the pipe back three times, then

pointed to the heavens and to the center of the group. This concluded

the ceremony and Lewis was allowed to smoke.



After the foregoing reception Lewis was permitted to tell how he and

Captain Clark had separated as they started to find Sacajawea’s people,

and how they had agreed to meet at Three Forks but had missed one

another. He explained his anxiety concerning the safety of his friend

and his party and asked for help. Suddenly some Indians came in crying,

“White man! White man!” Eagerly the group seated around the fire left

the lodge, as from its entrance they saw that Captain Clark’s party

was drawing near. Sacajawea approached the watching Indians sucking her

fingers, signifying that they were of her native tribe. As she advanced,

a woman darted to meet her and weeping and laughing alternately

embraced her. It was then found that they had been childhood friends

and now were meeting for the first time since the day on which the

Minnetarees had taken Sacajawea captive.



Captain Lewis and Captain Clark embraced also in their joy at meeting,

and the chief called for the ceremony of smoking. The warriors and the

white men arranged themselves in a circle, and the pipe was about to be

smoked when Sacajawea was sent for to act as interpreter. She entered

modestly and shyly, but when her eyes sought the chief, she suddenly

ran to him weeping once more, for the big chief was her own brother,

from whose side she had been snatched on the day of the tribal war.



After this meeting Charbonneau and Sacajawea were taken to the camp of

the Shoshones. Anything that the white men wanted was easily secured

now. Fifty horses were bartered for and delivered to them, so the

expedition was able to proceed. Sacajawea was eager to go to the coast

to see the “big water” and the “monster fish,” but the time of parting

had come. Charbonneau was paid five hundred dollars and thirty-three

cents for two years’ service, and the little Bird Woman, Sacajawea, was

given nothing but the gratitude and respect of the white man.



The party proceeded with other guides and finished the hard journey

through the mountains to the Columbia River and to the Pacific. They

brought back to the American public a romantic story of strange animals,

of prairies, of rivers, of waterfalls, of mountains, and, above all, of

Indians with their weird, barbaric customs, their strength, and their

eagerness to learn.



As a result of the travels of Lewis and Clark, and of other explorers

and early settlers who followed them, a strong interest in the West

sprang up among the people of the East. Many adventure-seeking boys

left homes of comfort in the older states during the next fifty years

in search of larger opportunities in the opening West. But these

glowing tales of Indian tribes, and of wealth easily gained, had

another effect besides that of luring high-spirited boys to seek

new fortunes beyond the Mississippi; there was also kindled a flame

of missionary endeavor in the churches of the East. Some of the

great chapters of American history are written about the men who gave

their lives to the task of carrying the gospel to the Indians, and to

establishing churches in the new settlements scattered over almost half

a continent.



Growing up as he did in a Christian home, William Van Orsdel heard

the stories of the brave pioneers of the Cross as well as those of

explorers and hunters. It is not strange that as a young man he should

respond with enthusiasm to the calls that were being made throughout

the churches of the East for strong, energetic, and devoted men to

enlist for Christian service in these new and difficult fields.



William had already proved the depth and earnestness of his Christian

faith. When a boy on the farm he had given his life fully into God’s

guidance and keeping. That he had caught the spirit of his Master he

showed to all about him by his many acts of neighborly service to those

who were in need. Although he had to work very hard on the farm even

while attending school, he found time on Saturdays and Sundays to visit

the sick and the unfortunate and to help and encourage them. Thus the

boy who had carried the news of the battle of Gettysburg to the village

people now became the bearer of news of another battle――of the battle

against all that is mean and unworthy in life――and of the Great Captain

of our salvation who gives the victory to those who in loyalty of heart

place themselves under his leadership. The people came to love his

simple telling of the old message and crowded the little churches and

schoolhouses whenever he would speak to them. Soon they began to call

him the “boy evangelist” which was only the first of many honors that

his friends and neighbors were to pay him in the long years of useful

service that lay ahead.



Thus young manhood brought to William the firm conviction that in

the missionary service of his church in those distant regions of the

Northwest, where there was such need for young men who could be at once

both pioneers and Christian leaders, he would find the life-work which

would allow him to be of the largest service to his country and to his

God. Each year brought him a stronger sense of beckoning Indian hands.

To these people of the western plains and forests, he must go and

preach; his decision was clear and firm. His small savings were far

from sufficient to cover the cost of the long and expensive journey,

for he found that the money which he could scrape together would carry

him only as far as Champaign, Illinois. He had faith, however, that if

he made the start, the way would be opened for him to reach his final

destination in Montana. He knew how to do hard work; he could earn his

fare for the remainder of the journey.



So William started on his eagerly anticipated travels. No mother was

there to give a farewell blessing, but he carried with him an abundance

of good wishes from the people in the neighborhood of Gettysburg,

for they had known him since childhood and loved him for his helpful,

friendly ways, and for his sincere character. Tucked away in a safe

pocket was his most highly prized possession, an exhorter’s license

granted him in recognition of his work as an evangelist, a high honor

for a boy of seventeen. Alone and unafraid he pressed on toward the

western land of his dreams.









                              CHAPTER III



                               WESTWARD





THE first task that William Van Orsdel found, as he journeyed westward,

was at Oil City, Pennsylvania. He had a cousin at that place whom

he visited, and who urged him to remain and run an oil-pump. He was

offered more money for the work weekly than the country lad had ever

seen at one time; so in April of the year 1870, and while on his way

to a thrilling career in the West, the boy became a day-laborer. At the

end of the first week in his new occupation, William was surprised to

learn from the foreman that he was expected to run the pump on Sunday.

When he protested against this use of the day of rest, he was told that

it would be all right if he would hire a substitute.



“I’d as soon do it myself as to cause another to work on the Lord’s Day.

I’ll do neither,” was the courageous reply.



William worked through the summer and into the autumn. When he

announced his intention of quitting he was offered an increase in

wages, although he had never worked on Sunday as his co-workers had

done. Instead of earning on that day, he had used his time for the

organization of a Sunday-school, and with true missionary spirit, had

talked of sacred things with his fellow workmen. Just before the time

that William was to leave the pumping job, the “bush meetings” were

announced. Woodmen would go into the forests and cut a road as they

went. When they reached a place fitted by nature for an auditorium, a

rough pulpit would be erected, slab benches put in place, and all would

be in readiness for a meeting.



The first night came and a large crowd, which was both serious and

curious, gathered at the place of meeting, but no preacher arrived. The

young oil-pumper who had organized the Sunday-school, and had talked

with thoughtless workmen, was sought for and urged to preach. Modestly

he assumed the role of evangelist to the waiting people, and three

persons were led to know the saving power of God on that night.



For ten days the meetings continued; many people having their interest

in religion rekindled, and many others made to feel the obligation

of right living for the first time. From these inspiring gatherings

William Van Orsdel went to Walnut Bend, an old settlement where, with

the exception of funeral sermons, no religious services had been held

for six years. Here a great revival occurred which lasted three weeks,

and forty citizens set to work to make their community life mean more

for faith and goodness than ever before.



Then followed meetings for three weeks at Oleopolis, where twenty-five

people renewed their faith and endeavors. Meetings were held at Pit

Hole, and continued for as long a period, and with the same encouraging

result. The three places where successful meetings had been held were

put into a circuit. One hundred and thirty-five members were received,

and the Presiding Elder asked William to take the charge at a good

salary for those days, and it included the privilege of boarding around.



The school-teachers and preachers in former times accepted “boarding

around” as one of the compensations of their calling. They recognized

its social value, even though dreading some of its privations. It

meant that the homes of the community were opened in succession to

the itinerant, who usually spent a week in the shelter of each home,

sharing its luxuries and difficulties as a member of the family. He was

then passed on to the next nearest neighbor until the round of homes

had been made, when the process was started all over again.



But the boy evangelist turned his back on the joys of boarding around,

for again came tidings from the West. The need of reinforcements for

the missionaries in the Oregon territory was related to him, and tales

of the settlers’ needs and of their privations. Stories reached him,

too, of the brave freighters serving the people of the wilderness; so

again the call of the West made the days of the boy preacher restless.

That map of the Louisiana Purchase became very real in those days of

decision.



Many years earlier Wilbur Fisk, who had been stirred by a strange story

of the Indians, had made an appeal in the columns of _The Christian

Advocate_. The incident which had come to the knowledge of Wilbur Fisk

would stir the heart of any eager young Christian. In these days when

all churches are giving to home missions as never before the story

must be retold, for it brought the beginning of Christian work in the

section where the quest was made.



Four Indians garbed in their odd dress appeared on the streets of

St. Louis in the year 1832. All through the summer and fall they had

traveled, for they had come two thousand miles in search of the “White

Man’s Book of Heaven,” and to ask that teachers would be sent to Oregon.

General Clark, the distinguished explorer, was then superintendent

of Indian affairs. He had charge of all Indians in the far West, with

headquarters at St. Louis. The Indians were received hospitably by

General Clark and cared for through the winter. He was a Roman Catholic

and they attended the church services regularly. During their visit to

St. Louis two of the Indians died, and the other two decided to return

to their people. A farewell banquet was given to these well-entertained

guests and at which one of them made the following speech:



“I came to you over the trail of many moons from the setting sun. You

were the friends of my fathers, who have all gone the long way. I came

with an eye partly open for my people who sit in darkness. I go back

with both eyes closed. How can I go back blind to my blind people! I

made my way to you with strong arms through many enemies and strange

lands that I might carry much back to them. I go back with both arms

broken and empty. Two fathers came with us. They were the braves of

many winters and wars. We leave them asleep here by your great water

and wigwams. They were tried in many moons and their moccasins wore out.



“My people sent me to get the white man’s Book of Heaven. You took

me to where they worship the Great Spirit with candles, but the book

was not there. You showed me the images of the Great Spirit and the

pictures of the good land beyond, but the book was not among them to

tell us the way. I am going back the long trail to my people in the

dark land. You make my feet heavy with gifts and my moccasins will grow

old with carrying them and yet the book is not among them. When I tell

my poor blind people, after the more snow, in the Big Council that I

did not bring the book, no word will be spoken by our old men or by

our young braves. One by one they will rise up and go out in silence.

My people will die in darkness and they will go a long path to other

hunting grounds. No white man will go with them, and no white man’s

Book of Heaven will make the way plain. I have no more words.”



Among the early missionaries, who became inspired by a knowledge of

the quest for the “White Man’s Book of Heaven,” were Francis McCormick,

known as the “man with the fist and the ax,” and John Kobler, the

first Methodist preacher north and west of the Ohio River. Another

of these leaders was Thomas Hall Pearne, a young man of great culture.

He practically received his commission from Bishop Janes in 1851.

“Go to Oregon; live there; work there and die there for Jesus,” said

the bishop. Young Pearne went west by way of Panama and landed in San

Francisco. William Taylor was then leading the religious forces of the

sunset city, and Pearne preached in the streets of San Francisco for

Taylor; then he sailed to the mouth of the Columbia River and finally

reached Portland.



On the first Sabbath day the new missionary appeared in his wedding

finery, for he had brought a wife to share in his labors, and the

stalwart pioneers looked askance at the silk hat, kid gloves, silk

necktie, and morocco shoes of the new preacher. “You do not look like

the fortieth cousin of a Methodist,” said one of the men frankly. The

young man asked to be given a hearing and preached with such spiritual

power that the people gladly accepted him as their leader. Pearne

erected the first Protestant house of worship on the Pacific coast

from Cape Horn to the Straits of Juan de Fuca. When later this pioneer

became presiding elder, his district included all of the United States

from the Missouri River to the Pacific Ocean, the total area being

1,170,000 square miles, and it covered all that part now known as

Oregon, Washington, Idaho, Montana, North and South Dakota. The

population was 13,294 white people and 100,000 Indians.



It was toward this vast territory that William Van Orsdel was working

his way. He left Oil City with only enough money to carry him to

Chicago. He stopped at Champaign to see a relative, and then went to

Chicago, where he met with a man who made clear to him just what his

future field was to be. This man was Chaplain McCabe, who was thrilling

thousands by his lectures on the bright side of Libby Prison, and by

his singing of such songs as “The Sword of Bunker Hill.” McCabe was

secretary of the Board of Church Extension of the Methodist Episcopal

Church, and had taken for his slogan, “A church a day,” as he sought

funds for the building of churches in the south and west. To this

man William confided his dreams and desires, and leading him to the

South Park Avenue Church, his new friend invited him to preach. The

Chaplain’s keen eyes twinkled as he listened, and visions came to him

of the churches which this youth would help him to build.



From Chaplain McCabe William learned much of the work to be done in

the west. “You are on the right track, young man,” he said. “Go west to

Montana, and help to build the kingdom in the western wilds.” He backed

his advice with some money and added, “You will realize what Paul

meant when he rejoiced that he did not build on any man’s foundation.

You will not find many foundations out there.” William Van Orsdel did

not feel that he was yet justified in having aid from the Missionary

Society, but he accepted the money as a personal gift from his new

friend. He set out again on his journey for the unexplored land of his

dreams.









                              CHAPTER IV



                  A SKY PILOT’S RACE UP THE MISSOURI





IT was a penniless but hopeful youth who came into Sioux City in the

spring of 1872 and made a straight path to the Methodist parsonage.

Pastor Crozier was the minister who received the traveler, and who

found a congenial spirit in him. There was much work at hand, and under

his new friend’s direction, William gave himself eagerly to new, and

yet familiar tasks. Sunday-schools were organized in schoolhouses, and

the religious interest of the community was revived as the happy boy

evangelist sang his songs and preached his earnest message. He was not

idle for a day.



Early in June a minister named Bennett Mitchell returned from New York,

where the General Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church had been

held, with the news that a Conference of North Iowa had been organized.

Mr. Mitchell had been appointed as its presiding elder and he offered

Van Orsdel a charge in this new field.



“Take the night to consider it,” he said. “Pray about it, and give me

your answer in the morning.”



It was settled long before morning, for William had learned that the

same General Conference had formed a Rocky Mountain Conference to

embrace the territories of Washington, Idaho, Montana, and a part of

Wyoming.



“The line of duty is very clear to me. I must go to the mountains.”

Such was the young pioneer’s firm reply on the morrow.



That very day a boat was starting up the Missouri for the Northwest.

The captain was hastily sought and interviewed. The fare was found to

be one hundred dollars.



“I haven’t that much money,” was the missionary’s frank reply to the

statement concerning the sum required.



“Well, I have no through passenger, so I’ll take you for seventy-five.”



“I’m sorry, but I haven’t got it.”



“Well, what in the world are you going to Montana for?”



“Oh, to sing and pray, and to encourage people to be good.”



The captain eyed the would-be passenger wonderingly. “Well, I have been

running this boat for a good many years, but I have never known of a

person going to Montana for that purpose,” he exclaimed. “If you will

sing and preach for us, I’ll take you for fifty dollars.”



The embarrassed young man was forced to admit that he did not have even

five dollars; then he made a venture of faith.



“If you will take me to Fort Benton, you will find fifty dollars

waiting for you here in care of Pastor Crozier when you return,” he

said.



The good-natured captain agreed. When the boat came into Sioux City

again many weeks later, he promptly received the fifty dollars. So much

was he impressed by the incident, that he sent the greater part of the

money to Montana for the missionary’s work――to help “encourage people

to be good.” The debt was paid in a curious manner. A group of friends

back in the oil region of Pennsylvania had been following the western

journey of the young missionary with deep interest but with no real

knowledge of his exact circumstances. They realized, however, that some

money would “come in handy,” and without previous notice or arrangement

had forwarded to Pastor Crozier, at Sioux City, a sum which made it

possible for him to keep the promise which the dauntless Van Orsdel had

made to the captain.



It was on June 12, 1872, that the boat, the _Far West_, started on its

twelve-hundred-mile trip up the Missouri River carrying the missionary

to his new work. This proved to be a notable run, the quickest made

by any boat to Fort Benton. The reason for the unusual speed was the

fact that a rival boat, the _Nellie Peck_, had left Sioux City two days

before, and the captain was eager to pass her. In spite of insufficient

fuel, hostile Indians, and difficult channels, the _Far West_ came to

Fort Benton one hour before the _Nellie Peck_.



On the second day out from Sioux City the tenderfoot missionary on the

boat saw a battle between hostile Indians on the banks of the river,

and the question came to him, “If we are in hostile country so soon,

what will it be when we get to Montana?”



Coming to the Upper Missouri, they found that the woodchoppers had

been either killed or driven away. No coal was used on the river boats

in those days; so whenever fresh supplies of cut wood were not ready

at the usual supply points, the boat roustabouts would rush into the

cottonwood groves near the bank, chop down trees and carry the logs on

deck to be cut into lengths as the steamer proceeded. The pilot-house

and other parts of the _Far West_ showed that the aim of the Indians

was far from perfect as they pursued the frantic workers, for the men

escaped unhurt, while the boat was frequently struck by the shots of

the attacking party.



At one time when the boat was nearly out of wood a landing was made

close to a large cottonwood flat. The plank had scarcely touched the

shore when from all directions there advanced parties of Sioux warriors

in full war-regalia. Two braves with a great following came on board.

One of them was a splendid specimen of Indian manhood. He stood over

six feet high and wore a brilliant bead war-bonnet, decorated with many

eagle feathers; each feather represented a scalp taken in the terrible

warfare which these tribes practised. In one hand he held a tomahawk,

and with the other grasped the folds of his gorgeous robe. It was a

critical moment. If these chiefs should be angered, the boat would be

at the mercy of the band. The captain made gifts of pipes, beads, and

jewelry, and without showing too much anxiety, tactfully persuaded them

to depart.



When the Indians had taken their leave, the boat proceeded as far as it

could go with its scanty supply of wood. Again a stop was made for fuel,

and as the roustabouts were loading it, a remarkable personage suddenly

appeared. He was a tall, athletic, white man, with long black hair

flung back on his shoulders from beneath a wide-brimmed hat. His suit

was of buckskin and he wore a cartridge belt, while on his arm there

rested a fine rifle. As he came on board the vessel, the missionary

watched him wonderingly. It was his first meeting with a man who was to

become world famous for his exploits in the far West, William F. Cody,

known more commonly as Buffalo Bill.



These are not the only names by which this interesting man was called

in the course of his long and thrilling career among cowboys and

Indians. First he was little Billy Cody, the western messenger; then

Wild Bill, the pony express rider, and as a grown man he was known as

Bill Cody, the wagon master. Finally, to the heart’s delight of boys

and girls the world over, he became Buffalo Bill. For many years before

his death in 1917, he was generally spoken of as Colonel William F.

Cody; but to the Indians he will always be their beloved “Pa-has-ka,”

or “Long Hair.”



When Cody was told about the braves having boarded the boat dressed

in full war-regalia, he marveled. “That was the band of Sitting

Bull and Rain-in-the-Face, two Sioux Indian chiefs,” he exclaimed.

“They have five hundred men with them and are out for a lark. It is

miraculous that you escaped, for you have in the boat just what they

most want――food and ammunition.”



  Illustration:   Courtesy of the American Bureau of Ethnology.



                  SITTING BULL WAS DRESSED IN FULL WAR REGALIA



Sitting Bull’s life story has been the theme of many writers. This

great warrior was a medicine-man, who preached of a happy day to come

when the palefaces should all be wiped out, and the land which they

had occupied should be restored to the Indians. To this end he greatly

incited his people to murder and devastation, but one thing must be

remembered, Sitting Bull believed firmly that the Indians were unfairly

treated. He sternly declared, “God Almighty made me――God Almighty

did not make me an agency Indian. I’ll fight and die fighting before

any white man can make me an agency Indian.” And he did. He defied

the government up to the very moment of his death in 1890; and his

resistance did not end until he fell pierced by the bullets of the

soldiers sent to take his person dead or alive.



Rain-in-the-Face was a warrior who had met all the tests of the

exacting medicine-man, Sitting Bull. His breast had been slashed,

and rawhide strips passed through it by which he was to hang until

the flesh gave way. Sitting Bull was not satisfied with the test and

maintained that the flesh had torn away too soon. Rain-in-the-Face

thereupon demanded another trial, lest he spend the rest of his life

despised as a squaw. So the strips were passed through the muscles of

his back, and for two days he hung, taunting his torturers, jeering,

and singing war songs. At last Sitting Bull was satisfied, and buffalo

skulls were hung on the feet of the tortured brave so that the folds of

flesh might tear away and release him. After that rather terrible test,

he was counted worthy of the title of warrior. Rain-in-the-Face died at

Standing Rock Agency in 1905.



The voyage in the _Far West_ became more and more exciting as the boat

proceeded. Indian camps came into view peopled so entirely by squaws

and children, that it was evident that the men were out on hostile

business. Great herds of buffalo and numberless droves of deer and

antelope were to be seen roaming on the prairie.



Young Van Orsdel was fascinated by the novelty of it all. His high

spirits, his friendliness, and his willingness to help in every way

made him a general favorite, and he soon won the complete confidence

of the captain and the roustabouts. He gave a hand at any odd job

that offered, singing as he worked, and daily living out his religion

of happiness and trust. When the woodchoppers were at work, he would

climb to some high point where he could watch the wide prairie for the

approach of Indians. In leisure moments as the boat forged ahead he

sang for the crew, much to their enjoyment, for his voice was of fine

quality and persuasive in tone. He became a fast friend of Jack, the

cabin boy, for he helped him to wash the dishes and arrange the tables.

Many were the intimate talks they had about their distant homes and

friends. As a result of this new friendship Jack became a Christian,

and later abandoned the river to take up the varied life of a frontier

preacher. So helpful was the missionary, that by the time the journey

came to its close, he was called the Sky Pilot of the expedition. He

was a friend to every one, from the captain to the lowest laborer.



The voyage contained one other interesting experience. At a landing

near Fort Benton, a typical plainsman clad entirely in buckskin boarded

the boat, saying, “I can’t stay in this place any longer. There are too

many hostile Indians.” This was Jim Dexter, who became one of Montana’s

great landholders and one of its well-known pioneers. From the first

moment of meeting there sprang up a warm friendship between him and

William Van Orsdel. This tie grew stronger in the long years following,

as in their different fields of effort they threw themselves into the

task of building a commonwealth in the wilderness.









                               CHAPTER V



                              BROTHER VAN





ABOUT seven o’clock on the first day of July, 1872, a gloomy, clouded

Sunday morning, the _Far West_ drew up to the landing at Fort Benton

and established the record for an up-river trip on the Missouri,

seventeen days and twenty hours from Sioux City. That was an exciting

Sabbath day for the settlement. The _Nellie Peck_ arrived an hour later;

while from St. Louis came the _Josephine_ after a sixty-days’ trip.



A number of ox-trains were waiting to take the incoming freight to

the towns and settlements beyond; some of these were many days distant.

Wagons drawn by mules and horses were crowded around the landing, eager

for what business might turn up. Cowboys, Indians, and soldiers from

the Fort mixed in the crowd, making the motley assembly which greeted

our Sky Pilot as he stepped on shore. All the white families came from

the tiny shacks of the new town to join in the curious throng as it

welcomed this unusual stir in the monotony of frontier life.



The tenderfoot did not know the terror of “gumbo,” but as he made his

way through the streets in the rain, he found the soil sticking to his

shoes in such quantities as to make walking difficult. It was God’s

day, and in spite of the dismal weather, the missionary trudged through

the town seeking a place to hold services. He was told that he could

use the courthouse. This sounded encouraging and he turned toward the

building eagerly. Disappointment was awaiting him, for it was only an

adobe structure, and the rain had washed holes in the roof and walls

through which muddy streams of water were pouring.



In continuing his search for a place in which to hold worship, William

learned that a Roman Catholic priest, Father Van Gorp, was conducting

a service in a saloon near by. He sought him out and was received

cordially. On hearing the desire of the newcomer, the priest assured

him that he could have the room as soon as his service was concluded,

for he intended to take passage on a boat which was to leave the Fort

in a few hours.



It was at that afternoon meeting of his first day in Fort Benton

that William Van Orsdel received the name of Brother Van. There

was a frankness and kindness in the young man’s manner toward these

strangers before him. The years of unselfish service for others, and

his conviction regarding the work he must do in the West had developed

a magnetic personality. The rough and hearty frontier people were keen

judges of character. They saw at once in the stranger, who had come

among them so naturally and courageously, a sincere, helpful spirit.

“Brother” was just the word that described him. “Van” was as much of

that lengthy and dignified name of his as they felt that they could

take the trouble to say. So, with the good-natured bluntness of the

West, “Brother Van” he became. It now rarely occurs to any of his

friends and neighbors that he has any other name. They would probably

assure you, if you were to raise the question with them, that he was

christened “Brother Van.”



Crowded in the saloon on that afternoon were the steamboat officers,

roustabouts, freighters, cowboys, Indians, and settlers, making a

strange audience for the young missionary’s first Montana sermon. He

would talk for a while, and then, when the attention wavered, he would

sing the songs that some of them had heard back East before they had

come under the hardening influences of the rough western life. Brother

Van asked if they would like an evening service and received an eager

request for one. The news of the arrival of this tenderfoot and of

his message and singing had traveled fast; so in the evening a larger

congregation gathered. Again he gave the message that many of them

had been missing in a long period of separation from church life, and

again hearts were stirred, as for the first time in years the uncertain

voices tried to follow the singing of the gospel songs which had been

sung “back home.”



There is no written record of the sermons of that day; but the simple,

straightforward manner of the preacher made a lasting impression on

the hearts of that strange crowd. The missionary spirit of the zealous

youth so won the respect of the cowboys that they withheld from this

tenderfoot the “initiation” which they were accustomed to give to

strangers. Brother Van was a vigorous youth with a florid complexion

and light hair. The simple directness of his manner and the good humor

showing in his blue eyes, so ready to twinkle with fun, gained fast

friends for him in the odd mixture of peoples.



While the _Far West_ was in port, Captain Coulson extended the

hospitality of the boat to his missionary passenger, though his

obligations had really ceased when he reached the town. When the boat

started back down the river, carrying the only people whom he knew,

pangs of homesickness came to the lonely youth; now he felt himself

truly a stranger in a strange land. But a new friend appeared. A good

woman who had been at the service on Sunday opened her home to him,

and established that night an “institution” which gradually extended

throughout the state of Montana, “Brother Van’s room.” Even in the

newest town where a beginning was just being made, there was always

some home in which a place was set apart to receive the welcome

traveler whenever he could come that way.



  Illustration:   RUINS OF HISTORIC FORT BENTON, WHERE BROTHER VAN

                  ATE JERKED BUFFALO MEAT AND HEARD TALES OF INDIAN

                  WARFARE



On the Monday following that eventful Sabbath, Brother Van set

out to explore the town. The central interest of Fort Benton was its

fur trading. This industry was developed in the United States by the

enterprise of John Jacob Astor. He saw that Canada was profiting by

this trade, and in 1812 he petitioned Congress to establish fur trading

posts within the boundaries of the United States, and to introduce such

goods as were necessary for bartering with the Indians.



Trading posts soon began to dot the vast wilderness of the North and

West. They were all built on the same general plan. A heavy stockade

was made by driving tree trunks into the earth so close together as to

make a wall, the only opening left being a massive double gate. In one

of the sections of this gate was a small door through which in times of

danger the trader could admit a single person at a time. He could open

it and talk with any Indian who came, without allowing the visitor to

enter. Within the outer stockade was an open space; then in the center

was a strongly built log or adobe structure containing the trader’s

quarters, storeroom, and the fort. In the wall of the storeroom was

an opening about eighteen inches square. This was called the “trading

hole” and was protected by heavy shutters controlled from the inside.



When the Indians came with their packs of furs the trader’s men met

them outside the stockade, and took from them all guns, bows, arrows,

tomahawks, and any other dangerous weapons which they might be carrying.

Then, in a group at a time, they were admitted to the stockade and

the heavy gates locked behind them. They were virtually prisoners, and

advancing across the open space between the stockade and the fort, they

would come to the trading hole, where the agent of the fur merchant’s

company was waiting to barter with them.



One by one the Indians would offer to the trader, who was often an

unscrupulous cheat, the beautiful soft furs which had been secured by

trapping and shooting amid the dangers and the hardships of the cold

and lonely North. Gaudy calico, cheap blankets, or the bad combination

of bullets and whisky, were given in exchange for the valuable pelts.

To such traders, to certain selfish and designing settlers, and to some

of the government agents, who have steadily driven the Indians back and

back from wide prairie to a hunting ground, and then to a reservation,

the red man owes much of the degradation and humiliation which overtook

him.



As we look curiously at the straggling herds of buffalo, deer, and

antelope in our parks and preserves to-day, we can scarcely realize

how abundant was the game which the early hunters and trappers found

roaming over the “Great American Desert.” There is evidence of one

herd of buffalo that made the earth brown for a stretch of country

seventy miles long by thirty miles wide. On one of the first railroads

to be laid across the plains of Kansas, a train was once held up for

nine hours while a herd crossed the tracks. Both whites and Indians

slaughtered these vast herds carelessly and wantonly, using a variety

of methods. A government report of 1875 speaks of one hundred thousand

buffalo that were killed near Dodge City, Kansas. Only the saddles were

used for food. The same report says: “It is known that south of the

Arkansas River, west of Wichita, there were from one to two thousand

men killing buffalo for hides alone.” At one place on the south forks

of the Republican River in 1874, there were six thousand and five

hundred carcases from which the hides had been stripped.



Towers for religious purposes, or medicine lodges, were built by the

Indians with the horns of buffalo, antelope, and deer. Some of these

towers were so high that they could be seen for many miles. Father

De Smet speaks of seeing one of them from the Missouri River as he

made his way westward in the year 1846. As a result of this enormous

destruction of the herds, the hide markets became so glutted that

the skins of bulls brought only one dollar, and the hides of cows and

calves from forty to sixty cents each.



Just outside of the city of Fort Benton there was pointed out to

Brother Van a famous cliff about one hundred and twenty feet high and

rising sheer from the river. There the Indians were in the habit of

killing buffalo by a method that is interesting if brutal. A fleet,

active young man of the tribe would disguise himself as a buffalo by

wearing a buffalo skin with the head attached. He was possessed also of

a “Iuis Kini” (i uis-ki ni) or buffalo stone, which gave power to call

buffalo. Before a run to a “falling place,” he spent the night invoking

the aid of the gods by burning sweet grass and sweet pine to draw the

spirits. He purified himself by passing through the smoke of this fire.



When all was ready the buffalo hunter would attract the

attention of the herd by strange antics, and then begin to call:

“Hoo-hoo-hoo-ini-uh-ini-uh.” Men and women concealed behind rocks began

to yell; and the buffalo, terrified, ran with ever increasing speed

toward the decoy, who led them toward the precipice. The herd, which

might vary in number from one hundred and fifty to ten thousand, would

rush blindly forward and plunge over the wall to death in the shallow

water beneath. The decoy would dodge into a crevice previously chosen

in the edge of the cliff.



Brother Van had arrived in this interesting country of Indian exploits

just before an eventful day, the Fourth of July. He was invited to the

Fort as a guest of the non-commissioned officers. The Stars and Stripes

fluttered over the rude barracks every day, but in the town the flag

was displayed to show that it was a holiday. Wild scenes were enacted

in the saloons, and Indians, who were waiting with their hard-earned

furs, learned of the white man’s “fire-water,” which was used freely

in the celebration.



Out in the stockade of the fort a feast was spread. The boat had

brought bread and dried fruit, both of which were great delicacies.

These, combined with the usual western fare, made a sumptuous repast.

The western fare consisted of “jerked buffalo,” which is simply

dried buffalo meat, fresh antelope meat, a great delicacy even to the

westerner, and the best dish of all, dried buffalo tongue.



Speeches were made and weird stories told of the warfare with the

Indians. The eastern youth listened and wondered, and on that day he

pondered over the subject of the red man’s condition. Later he decided

the matter in his own mind; he knew that the Indian had been more

sinned against than sinning, and that the original American had been

greatly misunderstood.



Those days of tarrying were fruitful days for William Van Orsdel. Not

only were the cowboys and freighters won to friendship by his sympathy,

but the Indians’ confidence was gained. Friends, whose helpfulness

was to last through his busy lifetime, became interested in him. Young

Tatton, a tall, vigorous, fighting scout, a member of Company B of the

Seventh Infantry, was one of the men who became one of Brother Van’s

fast friends in those days. He knew the West and understood its joys

and privations thoroughly. He had noticed the new preacher as he faced

the motley crowd that first day in Fort Benton. Though Tatton was a

Roman Catholic, he admired the zeal which had found a way and a place

for religious services on the very day on which the missionary had set

foot on the new soil. With leveled eyes the soldier scout had watched

the crowd as they listened to that first earnest sermon of the eager

newcomer, and to Brother Van he gave his support and a loyal and

lasting friendship.









                              CHAPTER VI



                      A BROTHER TO THE BLACKFOOT





THE first strenuous days in Fort Benton, and the welcome he received

there, might have convinced Brother Van that he had found a good place

in which to settle. It was plain that his ministry was much needed

and the prospects for a growing and useful work were bright. But he

never forgot for a moment that he had taken the long journey from his

Gettysburg home for the sake of serving among the Indians. Hence it is

not surprising that within a week from that exciting morning when he

had begun his Montana preaching career in the crowded barroom, we find

him pushing on toward one of the agencies where he could more readily

get in touch with the tribes. Again his attractive manner and his

earnestness of purpose won for him a lift on his way, only this time he

was to jolt over the rough prairie roads in a heavy wagon, instead of

gliding smoothly along the Missouri.



The Regimental Adjutant from Fort Shaw had brought his wife into

Fort Benton so that she might take passage on the return trip of the

_Far West_. The Adjutant had met Brother Van, and learning of the

missionary’s desire to continue his journey to the West, had invited

him to share the army wagon for the ride back to the post. The eager

young traveler grasped this opportunity without delay. It did not

take him long to stow away his baggage in the army conveyance, for his

scanty wardrobe made only a small bundle. He took his place beside the

Adjutant, and soon they were rumbling over the prairie toward Sun River

settlement and Fort Shaw.



The gumbo was still sticky and tough from the rains of the previous

days, and it was apparent from the first that there was to be a hard

journey ahead. The five army mules drawing the wagon objected to the

heavy traveling of the unbroken roads, and caused delays by their

“objections.” The driver’s patience at last was exhausted, and in true

western style he spoke to the errant beasts. Then he remembered that

there was a preacher in the wagon, and apologized for the language he

had used. Brother Van showed himself to be a very human missionary, for

he laughingly replied, “Why, bless your soul, you express my sentiments

exactly, though I can’t approve of your language.”



Before dark a severe thunderstorm overtook the travelers, and the

only shelter they could find was a lonely, deserted cabin. Here they

spent the night, making the best of such comforts as were found in the

government wagon. The coyotes sang a lonely song, and the prairie-dogs,

their only neighbors, made vigorous protests against the intruders.

This was the initiation of the tenderfoot preacher into the joys of

overland journeying.



On the next day they reached Sun River where no church or schoolhouse

existed; so again a place for Sunday service was sought, and a

Christian home was found which was opened gladly for this unaccustomed

use. Riders were sent out to all the settlements within reach, with

the result that on the following day a fine congregation gathered in

the frontier cabin. Carelessness about habits of prayer and worship

was common among these lonely people of the opening West. Brother Van’s

tender songs and warning words brought a genuine response from them.



After the service the travelers pushed on so that they might reach

Fort Shaw by evening. At this place also, Brother Van immediately set

about making arrangements to preach; and within a short time he had the

soldiers of the garrison gathered about him, talking to them in a manly,

helpful way that won their interest and their respect.



Tarrying but a day at Fort Shaw, he traveled with several companions

north to the town of Chouteau, which was on the Teton River, and

fifteen miles from the base of the Rocky Mountains. He hastened then

to the Indian agency near there where the Blackfeet were settled. This

tribe had migrated from Canada to the prairies of Montana, and it is

interesting to know that they had been first called “Blackfeet” by the

Flatheads and Shoshones, for when they had come to the end of their

long journey, their moccasins were travel-stained and black.



On arriving at the agency, the missionary first made himself known to

the officials and clerks and spoke to a group of them. They received

him cordially and from the beginning of his stay he was given fresh

confidence for his new work by the good will that they showed him. In

his first meetings with the Indians the Blackfeet tribesmen listened

to him stolidly and were apparently unmoved; but they caught the spirit

of brotherhood in this paleface preacher, and they soon began to show

signs of their approval of him. Brother Van was happy indeed in the

new opportunities opening before him, and in the increasing evidence

that the Indians gave of their affection for him. He was fascinated

by the strange life and mysterious customs which he found all about

him. During his stay with the Blackfeet, and through later years, the

missionary loved to study their ceremonies and legends.



One of the oldest institutions of the tribe was the building of the

medicine lodge, a celebration which Brother Van followed with the

keenest interest. It took place at the time of the ripening of berries

in the summer, and lasted through four days and nights. The lodge was

always erected in fulfilment of a vow made by some woman of the tribe

who was in trouble and who wished the help of the gods, perhaps to

bring back in safety a husband or son away at war, or to restore a

sick child to health. Her pledge was made publicly, so that all the

tribe would know that she would build the lodge in case her prayer

was granted. At the proper time the whole tribe would assemble and

set up their lodges in a circle in the middle of which the medicine

lodge was erected. The woman who had made the vow neither ate nor drank

throughout the four days, except once only, and that in sacrifice.

The other members of the tribe gave themselves over to visiting and

feasting with their friends, and, also, to a strange kind of worship in

which they tried to prove the sincerity of their prayers by torturing

themselves in various painful ways.



The lodge was built in accordance with a plan which the Sun himself was

supposed to have given to one of the young men of the tribe in ancient

times. It represented the world, and was made by placing small trees

of uniform size in a circle, and bending the branches toward the center

to form the roof. One half of it was painted red for the Sun, and the

other half black to represent night. In recent years the medicine lodge

is seldom used owing to the effect of modern education in destroying

the superstitious beliefs of the Indians, and within another generation

the ceremony will probably be extinct.



  Illustration:   Board of Home Missions and Church Extension

                  Methodist Episcopal Church.



                  BROTHER VAN VISITING A MEDICINE LODGE ERECTED AS

                  A TRIBAL CEREMONY BY THE BLACKFEET INDIANS



Brother Van also discovered that the tribal dances were not as simple

as they had appeared to be, but that they were filled with hidden

meanings, and that each had a history of its own. The story of the

Pigeon Dance, which was one of those witnessed by the new missionary,

shows the background of folk tales, dreams, and of the imitation of

animal and bird life from which these dances grew. It is believed by

the people that all of their dances originated in the dream of a seer

of the tribe many generations ago. The custom was for some old man

to go off into absolute seclusion out of sound of any human voice. He

then subjected himself to various ceremonials, and becoming at last

exhausted sought sleep and dreams. The process was continued until

something new and unheard of was dreamed. The seeker for “something new

under the sun” would then come back to the waiting tribe, and patiently

wait and watch for his dream to come true. Not until he saw it in

reality could he call the tribe together and proclaim the glad news.



Once upon a time an old man went away to a quiet spot and after the

proper ceremonials fell asleep and the much desired dream came to him.

He saw a flock of beautiful, many-colored pigeons and as they circled

and whirled, he perceived that they were in truth executing a rythmic

dance. With grace and perfection of motion they performed wonderful

and intricate figures. Their soft cooing made a weird and strange

music which added to the charm of the mystical dances. The old man had

dreamed the dream for which he longed. He came back to the tribe and

said nothing, but he watched for the realization of the vision.



Eagerly he sought the nesting and feeding places of pigeons. One day

he actually saw the birds dancing as he had seen them in his dream.

Immediately runners were sent forth to call the people together. A

great feast was prepared at which the seer announced the vision that

he had seen, and the manner in which the dance was conducted. On the

American nation’s birthday in the year 1917, this strange but beautiful

dance was a part of the celebration at the Blackfeet Indian agency, and

Brother Van, so long a friend of the Indians, was the guest of honor.



The missionary found that through their love of beauty and heroism

the Indians had a peculiar understanding and appreciation of Bible

history. There was much in their simple, wandering life that made them

feel a close kinship with those shepherds, hunters, and warriors of the

ancient East. They had passed through the same great human experiences,

and they shared many of the same beliefs. In their crude and faltering

way they, too, looked up to a Great Spirit who made all things and

upon whose bounty all men depend. As they told Brother Van their tribal

legends, he was struck by the remarkable resemblance which many of

these bore to some of the stories of the Bible. The Blackfeet story of

the forming of the world is peculiarly interesting because it shows the

belief which they have in a Creator.



“In the beginning there was water everywhere. A raft was floating on

which Old Man (the Sun) and all the animals were gathered. Old Man

wished to make land. He sent the beaver to the bottom of the water to

bring up mud. The beaver never reached the bottom. The loon was tried

and he failed. The otter made the perilous journey and failed. At last

the muskrat was sent down. He was gone so long that Old Man thought he

was drowned. Finally he came up and floated almost dead. He was pulled

on top of the raft, and as they looked at his paws, they found a little

mud on them. Old Man dried this mud and scattered it over the water,

and land was formed.



“Old Man then began to make the earth to suit him. He marked places

for rivers to run. Sometimes the rivers ran smoothly and sometimes

with falls. He made mountains, prairies, and timber. He carried a lot

of rocks around with him, and of these he made mountains. He caused

grass to grow on the plains for the animals to feed upon. He marked

certain pieces of land where berries should grow; others where camas

should grow; others for wild carrots and turnips, and others for

service-berries, bull-berries, and rosebuds.



“He made the Big Horn sheep and put it on the prairie, but it was

awkward and slow; so he put it on the rough hills, and it skipped about.

While Old Man was in the mountains he made the antelope. It ran so fast

that it hurt itself; so he put it on the plains and said, ‘This is the

place that will suit you.’



“At last he decided to make a woman and a child. He modeled clay in

human shape and laid the forms on the ground and said, ‘You shall be

people.’ After four days they were changed and he said, ‘Stand up and

walk.’ They walked to the river and the woman said, ‘Shall we live

forever?’ Old Man said, ‘I had not thought of that. We must decide.

I’ll throw this buffalo chip in the water. If it floats, people shall

live after being dead for four days. If it sinks, that shall be the end

of them.’



“He threw the chip. It floated. The woman said, ‘No, I will throw this

stone into the water. If it floats, we shall live always; if it sinks,

people must die.’ The rock sank. Old Man said, ‘You have chosen. That

will be an end to them.’ By and by the child died and the woman wanted

to change the law, but Old Man answered, ‘What is made law must be law.’



“At first people had claws like bears so that they might gather roots

and berries. There were buffalo which killed and ate people. Old Man

said, ‘I’ll change this. From this day on the people shall eat buffalo.’

So he cut some service-berry shoots and peeled them; then he took a

flat piece of wood and tied strips of green hide to it and made a bow.

On one end of each light, straight shoot, he tied a chip of hard stone,

and on the other end he put a feather. He gave them to the men, saying,

‘Take these the next time you go among buffalo. Shoot as I have taught

you.’



“When the arrows first struck the buffalo, it called out, ‘Oh, my

friends, a great fly is biting me.’ After the buffalo had been killed,

Old Man saw his people eat the raw flesh. ‘I will show you something

better,’ said he. He gathered soft, dried, rotten wood. He took another

piece of wood and rapidly drilled a hole in it with an arrow-head. A

tiny flame soon sprang up from which he kindled a big fire and showed

his children how to roast the meat.”



The history of the forming of the Blackfeet Indian tribe is also very

quaint, and it could not but have an especial appeal to Brother Van,

for from his early youth his life had been one to encourage clean

living. The story tells how one brave looked with disfavor upon the

tribal vices and misdemeanors, and strove to bring the members into a

finer, cleaner way of living. His own life was pure and good, and his

people recognized this, but they would not heed his pleadings. Finally,

he went off into the silence of the plains to communicate with the

Great Spirit. He told of his desire for his people: that they should

all be pure and strong; that the maidens should be contented; that they

should dwell in a land where game abounded, and where wars should never

come. From this great spiritual leader the Blackfeet tribe was said to

have descended.



As Brother Van pursued his work among his beloved Indians, they became

more and more attached to him. Like the white residents, they, too,

accepted their kind-hearted visitor as a brother. This tie deepened

with the years in which he was known to them, and in time a great honor

came to him. He was adopted into the tribe, and with a picturesque

ceremony he was received into their circle and given a new name,

Amahk-Us-Ki-Tsi-Pahk-Pa, which means “Great Heart” or “Big Heart.”

There was a tribute in the meaning of those queer syllables which any

man might be proud to win――especially from people of a different race.

At the same time he received a gift of a new and beautiful tribal

costume from them. It is Brother Van’s custom to visit the Blackfeet

every year on the Fourth of July when he wears his Indian costume and

celebrates the nation’s birthday with his Indian brothers.



  Illustration:   Board of Home Missions and Church Extension

                  Methodist Episcopal Church.



                  THE PICTURESQUE CEREMONY OF ADOPTION INTO THE

                  BLACKFEET TRIBE



With the progress of his work on the agency, Brother Van’s indignation

was aroused by the injustice and oppression dealt to the red man.

As he witnessed the system of trading, he came to see with ever

increasing clearness, that the Indians would never have the necessary

opportunities for progress and development unless the white man, and

the white man’s government, could be brought to deal fairly and justly

with these original inhabitants of the plains. The very future of the

Indian race he saw to be at stake. “What is the use,” he asked himself,

“of teaching and training these people when diseases caused by contact

with the white man’s civilization are threatening their existence, and

when their living is being taken from them by the settlement of their

lands?”



The problem which confronted the missionary has been put briefly in a

more recent time by Commissioner of Indian Affairs, the Hon. Cato Sells,

who says, “Before you educate the Indian you must save his life.” As

Brother Van faced the misery, the disease, and the ignorance among them,

he decided that even to save the Indians’ lives, to say nothing of

winning them to Christ, it would be necessary to lead the white people

to change their ways. How could he continue to try to convert and

educate the Indians, when the Indians could see very plainly that the

white preacher’s brothers were very much in need of the same kind of

teaching?



Gradually Brother Van’s resolution was formed――he must give his first

attention to establishing churches in the new towns that the white

settlers were building. It meant giving up the life among the people

he had come to serve, and who already had shown many encouraging signs

of response to his preaching. His decision led him away from his new

friends and back among his own race, but he continued to come into

contact with the Indians from time to time. His sympathy with them and

his understanding of their habits helped him to teach them successfully.

Through the years he proved himself to be “Great Heart,” a brother to

the Blackfoot.









                              CHAPTER VII



                            THE GOSPEL TEAM





THE unfriendly conditions which Brother Van found growing between the

Indians and the whites led later to the Custer Massacre. While in the

missionary’s mind there was no expectation of such a serious climax,

yet he saw that the idea of a real brotherhood of man must be given

as quickly as possible to the traders, miners, ranchmen, and settlers.

Through their better understanding of Christ’s religion the Indian

through example would be led to know the white man’s God.



It was a fresh quest that made Brother Van set out for Helena,

which was then a comparatively large settlement. The town was in the

proximity of the gold mine called Last Chance Gulch. This mine has an

interesting history. Prospectors had been for long, weary months at

Silver Creek, which was twelve or thirteen miles from where Helena now

stands. Luck had been against them, and they packed their horses and

came down the trail disheartened and “broke.” They resolved to give up

the search and go home. Coming into Helena in the evening, they made

camp close to the tiny town, intending to leave early on the following

day.



On the next morning the horses were loaded, and everything was in

readiness for the start, when the unquenchable faith of the prospector

moved John Cowan to take up a pick and to make one more attempt to find

ore.



“Well, boys, here’s our last chance,” he said, carelessly, as he drove

his pick into the ground.



He struck gold. From that mine fifty to eighty million dollars’ worth

of gold was taken. The words of the lucky prospector always stuck to

the section, and it was called Last Chance Gulch. The mine was five

miles long and the vein two hundred feet wide. One nugget was free

from quartz, and was worth two thousand and seventy-three dollars. Last

Chance Gulch has a thrilling record. Scenes of adventure and death took

place there. Men made vast fortunes. Other men lost all that they had

and went away broken in spirit. Gamblers won and lost; prospectors

failed; but always Last Chance paid in gold.



Entering Helena to-day, you will find a thriving, bustling city, proud

of one of the finest hotels in the Northwest. The hotel stands on the

spot where the miner stuck in his pick. Enough gold was found in the

soil to pay for the excavation, and this was taken from the “tailings,”

or discarded earth handled by the early miners. But Helena was a

typical mining town when the Eastern tenderfoot came. He was at the

mercy of the hard element. Only the rare good judgment and a sense of

the fitness of things saved the preacher and made his ministrations

possible.



Brother Van made a short stay there, and then, as a missionary

to “everywhere,” he pressed on to Bozeman. There he found the only

Methodist Church building in Montana Territory. It was a brick church

and it had been built through the enterprise of the Rev. Thomas C.

Iliff. This missionary was a great force in the new West. He brought a

dainty, cultured, Eastern bride to the unsettled territory. Through the

inspiration of her companionship and tactful assistance, together with

his own natural courage and ability, he became a notable power for good

in the development of the West.



Dr. Iliff had come to Helena in Eastern finery, and appeared on

the streets adorned with an immaculate linen frock coat, fancy vest,

striped trousers, and silk hat. As he came along the streets, cries of

“Fresh fish! Fresh fish!” greeted him. The silk hat seemed particularly

to annoy the deriding miners who closed in around the preacher.

His fighting blood was up, and the new preacher continued his way,

apparently undaunted by the jeers of the crowd. But early next morning

he stole forth to a hatter’s and purchased a wide-brimmed hat, which

style of hat, by the way, he wore to the day of his death. With the

aid of the obliging haberdasher, the silk hat was wrapped to resemble a

joint of stove-pipe and it afterward became a relic of by-gone splendor.

Brother Van and the hero of the tall hat story became fast friends,

and had many an adventure together in the years of roughing it that

followed.



A pony had been given to Brother Van during his visit at Helena. He

was now in reality a circuit-rider, and as he became familiar on the

plains, he and his steed began to be known everywhere as the “Gospel

Team.” They traveled through a large section of the state and when

the anniversary of Brother Van’s arrival in Montana came, it was

an experienced preacher who celebrated it. Such a wonderful year it

had been! Hardships were forgotten in the triumphs, for many “first

services” had been conducted, and scores of “first members” had been

received. The year had brought friends, and his faithful pony seemed to

be a real partner in service. Into the preacher’s pocketbook had gone

exactly seventy-five dollars as the year’s salary, but there was no

thought of quitting because of the lack of stipend. The West had called

him and had claimed him.



On the day that marked the end of his first year in Montana, Brother

Van received from the Conference an appointment as Junior Preacher

to the Rev. F. A. Riggin. The appointment read: “To Beaver Head and

Jefferson District.”



Virginia City in the southwest corner of the state was the center of

this circuit. Beaver Head, Madison River, and Salmon City, one hundred

and fifty miles away, were its three points. Montana had been set

off from Idaho and erected into a separate territory in May, 1864.

Brother Van’s circuit, therefore, extended across the Rocky Mountains

into Idaho as far as Salmon City. The region provided variety in its

characteristics. There were lonely trails to travel over for the pony

and Brother Van, and for his co-worker, Mr. Riggin. There were only

eighteen members of the church in all that large region. The junior and

senior preachers so arranged their work that one man took care of the

regular appointments while the other did the evangelistic work. By this

plan a continuous series of evangelistic meetings was held for seven

months. At the end of their first year in the district, seven new

societies had been organized, and one hundred and fifty new members

received into the church.



Among the long rides which the Gospel Team took was one to the town of

Butte. In describing the occasion Brother Van remarked dryly: “We had

all but ten of the whole town in our congregation on that first night.”

This would be a remarkable statement if it were made to-day; but at

that time the population of Butte was exactly fifty people. The city is

now the most important railway center in the state. It has been called

the “greatest mining camp in the world.” Brother Van’s visit was at the

very beginning of the history of what is now a city of great interest

to America.



When the snow cleared away the Gospel Team penetrated to the National

Park, and one day on coming into the Upper Yellowstone Valley, Brother

Van found a large congregation waiting. One man said: “If a herd of

wild buffalo had run through the streets of St. Louis it could not have

caused more comment than that a preacher had come to the Yellowstone.”

The National Park was then but a year old, and the grandeur of the

“Wonderland of America” was beginning to be appreciated. It was in the

famous place of geysers, deep canyons, and waterfalls, where nature had

combined many influences to produce the beauty of the surrounding scene,

that Brother Van conducted the first Protestant religious service held

in the new park. The missionary continued to go about steadily from

section to section and at the close of his five years of work in

Montana as missionary to everywhere, he received the appointment of

local deacon. It was just about the date of this recognition, that the

trouble brewing between the Indians and the white men developed into

the Indian wars.



The settlers lived in small isolated communities. Some of the pioneers

had seized the opportunity to return east to visit their old homes

while the Centennial Exhibition was in progress in Philadelphia in the

year 1876. In the spring of that year gold had been discovered in the

Black Hills of Dakota, an almost unknown region girt around by what is

known as Bad Lands, or “Medicine Country,” as the Indians called it. At

once there was a rush of miners out of Montana to the new fields. This

move helped to reduce the white population. A spirit of rebellion had

been steadily rising in the minds of the red men until it reached the

open hostility soon to give to American history the fearful story of

the Custer Massacre.



  Illustration:   Copyright, W. T. Ridgely Calendar Co.

                  Painting by Charles M. Russell.



                  INDIANS WERE EVERYWHERE STEALING HORSES AND

                  TERRIFYING SETTLERS



The Indians objected so strongly to the intrusion of prospectors and

others into their territory, that they sent Red Cloud and Spotted Tail

to Washington to protest, because the coming of the white men into

that region was a clear violation of existing treaties. The government

promised to keep prospectors out, but failed to do so. The Indians

then demanded payment for their lands. The government sent a commission

which reported that force would be the only way to settle the dispute.

The Indians also decided that this was their only method of protest.

It had been seen that the first meetings worked no advantage to either

side, but served only to anger both Indians and whites. A message was

sent by the United States government to Sitting Bull, who had gathered

all the warriors around him in the Big Horn country. He was ordered

to return to the Reservation, or the United States would make war on

his people. He sent this reply: “When you come for me you need bring no

guides. You will easily find me. I shall be right here. I shall not run

away.”



He kept his promise. The Indians took their allowance from the United

States government and bought bullets and guns. They gathered along

the Rosebud and Little Big Horn rivers and among the hills and valleys

between. They were led by Rain-in-the-Face while their real leader,

Sitting Bull, was absent making medicine.



The United States troops in the western States had concentrated in

their efforts to check the rebellion. General Custer was in command

of the cavalry under General Terry. Scouts brought word that a band of

Indians were riding rapidly to join the main body. They were supposed

to be Pawnees, and numbering not more than twelve hundred. General

Custer was sent to surround the camp. He divided his men into three

companies as he prepared a well-planned attack. Major Reno was to ride

directly across, but was to wait one hour to allow Major Benteen’s

detachment to go up the river, cross it, and so be above the camp. The

tactics did not allow for the hard traveling which Major Benteen found,

nor for the great force of hostile Indians.



At the end of the hour of waiting, Major Reno attacked and was so

completely overcome and dismayed at the strength of the Indians, that

he fled to the bluffs. Major Benteen arrived at last, but saw that he

could do nothing, so he joined the retreat. This left General Custer

at the place which he had selected with two hundred men to face an

infuriated band of Indians numbering five thousand. When Custer saw the

size of the Indian army, he sent a scout to the retreating men in the

hills, saying, “Come on, big village, be quick, bring packs.” He meant

by packs the extra powder and bullets. With their horrible war-cry the

Indians bore down on the little handful of men, who soon saw that there

was nothing to do but to fight and die.



General Custer saw every one of his men mutilated and scalped, and

he stood at last alone. He received seven wounds before he fell. The

onrushing Indians were abashed and astonished at such bravery; not

a rough hand was laid on Custer’s body, and no tomahawk tore into

the hero’s scalp. On the next day Major Reno and Major Benteen were

followed by the Indians and attacked as they prepared to make their

last stand. But these enemies saw the rest of the white men approaching

under Generals Terry and Gibbon and quickly fled.



On the twenty-seventh day of June, the bodies of General Custer and

his brave men were buried. A monument marks the spot where they fell,

and all America honors the courage that the handful of men displayed

on that summer day. Another people honor those dead. The Sioux Indians

look upon General Custer as a god because of his bravery. His memory is

honored and loved among them, and they call him the “Evening Star.”



In _Lives of Famous Indian Chiefs_, N. B. Wood says that there were two

survivors of Custer’s last stand, Curley, the Crow scout, who put on a

Sioux blanket and escaped, and the horse Comanche, the famous war horse

of Captain Keogh. He was found bleeding from seven wounds, and was

carried back by soldiers on a litter of blankets and poles. Comanche

recovered and lived to the age of forty-five, while few horses reach

the age of thirty-five. His skin was stuffed and is now in the museum

of the Kansas State University.



This massacre at Little Big Horn, now so memorable a part of American

history, threw a gloom over the whole nation. The New York _Tribune_ on

July 3, 1876, said: “It is the eve of Independence Day, the Centennial

Fourth. All the land is ablaze with enthusiasm. Alas! if the tidings

of General Custer’s terrible disaster could be borne on the wings of

the four winds, dirges, not anthems would be heard in the streets of

Philadelphia, New York, and San Francisco.



“A great shadow has fallen on the valley of the Big Horn. The youngest

of our guard, the _beau sabreur_ of the Army of the Potomac, the

golden-haired chief whom the Sioux had learned to love, has fought his

last fight. Surrounded by over two hundred and fifty brothers in arms,

Custer lies buried in the field where he fought, and fought until he

could fight no longer.”



But this serious situation of the Indian uprisings did not end with

this calamity which is referred to commonly as the Custer Massacre, and

Brother Van had a full share of the dangers. Later the wars came into

his territory.









                             CHAPTER VIII



                        SCOUTING FOR UNCLE SAM





GREAT excitement prevailed throughout the West over the rebellion

of the Indians. The effect of the disturbances was felt increasingly

severely in the district between Bannack and Sheridan. The Nez Percés

Indians had long dwelt in the beautiful and fertile Wallowa Valley in

Oregon. They resented the new treaty and fled into Montana from the

soldiers sent to force them into the reservations. They were accustomed

to the trails through Idaho and over the mountains as they had often

come to Montana to camp and to hunt buffalo. This tribe had become

known as the Nez Percés (nose pinched) Indians because they wore rings

in their noses when Lewis and Clark found them during their western

explorations. It is claimed by some members of the tribe that this was

a mistake and that wearing nose rings had never been a custom of theirs.



The Nez Percés were a peaceful people and it was this tribe that had

sent the delegation to find the “White Man’s Book of Heaven.” They had

remembered the white man’s religion during the twenty-five years after

the visit of those early explorers and the time of the pilgrimage of

their leaders to St. Louis. They were eager to know the true religion

and had often disputed about it among themselves. Some members of the

tribe held that the white man worshiped the sun, as he had pointed to

the sky when he spoke to them of God. They knew that the book would

tell them the truth.



One of the religious ceremonies of the Nez Percés was the sun-dance.

A pole was set up in the center and the people circled about it. The

priest stood in the center of the circle and held up a fish, berries,

or some other food and said, “Oh! Father bless the fish. Oh! Father

bless us.” The phrase varied, of course, with the food thus held to the

sun. Every one would chant the words after him with their heads bowed

to the ground.



The resentment of these peaceful and worshipful, but now rebellious

Indians showed itself in their acts of defiance. The settlements

were greatly disturbed. Stories of wanton raids on the settlers were

borne back and forth as the swift riders galloped over the prairies.

Stockades were made for the protection of the women and children.

Miners, ranchmen, and settlers were all engrossed in the one big object

of protecting the lives of the scattered whites, and of saving the

property so dearly bought by their daring and toil.



Thus Brother Van found a new job. He gave his services to his country,

and, still preaching, singing, and cheering sad hearts, he became

war scout for General O. O. Howard, who had been put in command of

the troops sent to quell the Indian uprising. Only indecisive battles

were fought. The Indians were not quieted, but were fired to further

violence. Still resenting the presence of the whites on the plains, and

still failing to appreciate the protection of the Great White Father

at Washington, they were moved to many acts of violence under such

indomitable leaders as Chief Joseph, Looking Glass, and White Bird to

command their movements.



The town of Bannack was built on Grasshopper Creek where gold was

discovered in 1862. It was the first capital after the region became

a territory and it was there in December, 1864, that the first

legislature met and divided the new territory into counties.



Fear of the Indians was so intense in Bannack that the town was

picketed, and volunteers were on the lookout at night. Brother Van was

preaching to a large congregation in the courthouse and guards watched

the building in which he spoke.



“He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide

under the shadow of the Almighty.



“I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in

him will I trust.



“Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from

the noisome pestilence.”



These were the words with which the preacher sought to quiet the alarm

in the hearts of the waiting people. At daybreak a swift rider came

into town and one arm dangled as he rode. Then came another rider who

brought the message, “Indians are devastating and killing as they come

and many of the settlers are being killed.”



A quick consultation followed in the grey dawn. Fifteen men volunteered

and the missionary scout was among them. Melvin Trask was elected

captain of the volunteer band. When all were ready a woman came and

asked to be allowed to accompany them, for her husband, Mr. Winter,

was on the plains at the mercy of the invaders. The company absolutely

refused to allow her to go, and she was put under the guard of some

neighbors that she might be protected.



The party set forth with grim, set faces and had proceeded about twelve

miles when they heard a rider approaching from the rear. On guard and

alert against possible surprise, they were astonished on looking back

to see Mrs. Winter, who soon rode into their circle. Declaring that

no power on earth could keep her from her husband, she had mounted the

splendid horse which was her own particular property, and now joined

the party of volunteers. They rode until they reached her home. At the

front door lay the body of a man with four bullet wounds in his head,

and on opening the door, Mrs. Winter found the body of her husband’s

partner, Mr. Montague. Mr. Winter could not be found in the house, so

the party started to search the grounds. By the side of the house they

found the body of a Mr. Smith, and further on discovered a ranchman

named Farnsworth and to him were able to give comfort in his dying

moments.



Two scouts now set out to find Mr. Winter. As they departed, the Nez

Percés warriors returned to the scene of devastation, and the little

band of volunteers was forced to ride rapidly toward Bannack, firing

as they went. This left the scouts alone at the mercy of the Indians.

Crawling when they must, running when they could, they evaded the

Indians and came at last to a protected section, where they were able

to make real progress. Here they met the retreating party and the

glad meeting was just over, when to their wondering eyes appeared

a blood-stained, disheveled, white man. Mrs. Winter recognized her

husband, and their joyous reunion took place on the sheltered road.



Cautiously the anxious riders turned back to the Winter ranch. The

Indians had again departed. A wagon was found that could be used,

though the devastating hands of the Indians had touched, not only

the house, but all the property of the ranchman. The four bodies were

tenderly lifted and taken to Bannack for Christian burial. That funeral

is a sacred hour in Montana history. General Howard’s scout, Brother

Van, was the preacher. The terrified people gathered in a great sobbing

congregation. The isolation of the settlers gave them a feeling of

desolation that was disheartening. These four bodies were evidences of

the murderous intent of the red men; surely a large task was set for

Brother Van in helping the terror-stricken on that day.



The services began and the preacher in his own quieting way talked to

the living, for hope was his vital breath. Comfort began to steal over

the waiting throng, when lo, a messenger appeared at the church door.



He said, “The Indians are again approaching Bannack.”



The service came to an abrupt close, for those in attendance hastened

home to protect children and property. All was in confusion. The men

gathered in consultation. They decided that word of the new attack must

be taken to General Howard, who was coming toward the scene and was

even then but twelve miles away.



Again volunteers were called for. Once more Brother Van offered

his services and with John Poindexter set out for help. They rode

through Indian country, and evading every danger, came at last to

the detachment of the regular army. They found the soldiers in sore

straits, for the long march through Idaho had been most disheartening.

Communications with the East were cut, and they were compelled to live

on such scant forage as the country provided. The infantry was without

shoes and the cavalry was tired out with long marches in a mountainous

country. On hearing of the danger that threatened Bannack, General

Howard dispatched a company of cavalry for the town’s protection. He

then spoke to the two hardy, seasoned scouts who had come to him for

help, and asked of them a great service. He told them of the scantiness

of his supplies. He explained the importance of sending information to

Washington concerning the serious situation, and asked them if they

would be his messengers to the nearest point of communication with the

government.



“We are at our country’s service,” was their instant reply.



So, in the lonely watches of the night, John Poindexter and Brother Van

started on another errand of mercy. As they left the camp they could

hear the hoot of the owl and the yelp of the coyote――sounds that were

plaintive and saddening at any time, but to these two scouts they were

now full of deadly meaning. They knew that the hoot and the yelp were

signals given by watching Indians.



As silently as possible they moved, going directly to the south, and

as they journeyed the calls grew indistinct, and at last were heard no

more. The scouts relaxed slightly, for their confidence was somewhat

regained. Suddenly in the dim dawn twelve warriors loomed up before

them. No shots could be fired. The party was small and a shot would but

call other waiting Indians to their assistance. General Howard must not

be drawn into needless battle, for his men and horses were suffering

for lack of rest. The horses which the scouts were riding were fresh

and spirited; so, giving spur and riding in furious haste, the two

messengers outdistanced the Indians, leaving them and the immediate

danger far behind.



At last the scouts reached the stage road, and rode without

interruption to a station. Here the precious message to Washington was

put in the hands of Uncle Sam’s postmen, who drove the stage-coaches

amid such peril and hardship, carrying passengers and letters across

the “Great American Desert.” Their duty accomplished, Brother Van and

his companion returned to the seat of war. They found Bannack ready

for a siege. Captain Bell was in charge of the company of regulars, and

there were also two companies of Montana Volunteers from Butte under

the command of Major W. A. Clark.



When the excitement over their safe return had subsided, Brother Van

again turned his attention toward the church. The town was full of

people and their need of solace was great. A church building had been

started but the Indian wars had halted the work. The missionary scout

determined to finish the church and he found that everybody wanted to

help; soldiers, settlers, and cowboys went at the building with hearty

good will. The little church was thus very speedily completed, and on

a beautiful Sabbath Day another of Brother Van’s first enterprises was

dedicated to the Lord.



  Illustration:   BROTHER VAN’S DISPATCH TO THE HELENA HERALD,

                  AUGUST 13, 1877, DESCRIBES CONDITIONS AT BANNACK



What the helpful presence of the preacher-scout meant to the

distressed townspeople in those trying days is shown by a dispatch sent

from Bannack to the Helena _Herald_, August, 1877. The correspondent

reported: “Word also has just arrived that there is a load of guns and

ammunition within fifteen miles of us; an escort has just gone out to

meet it. News also comes that Joe Metlin is on his way from Glendale

with a company of volunteers for our protection, and that he will

arrive in a few hours. It is now midnight, and every now and then some

one keeps coming in, so that if we get the guns here by morning we

will be in better shape. The Rev. Van Orsdel is here doing duty as a

volunteer. He is a whole man. God bless all good men of whatever creed.”



A successful work in this community seemed ahead of the

scout-missionary. A common fear had drawn the people closely together

and nearer to their knowledge of a protecting God. But another work was

given to Brother Van and fresh adventures shortly presented themselves.









                              CHAPTER IX



                              NEW TRAILS





WHILE danger of the Indian attacks was still hanging over Bannack

and the other settlements, new orders came to William Van Orsdel. A

Conference in session at St. Louis had heard an account of the young

missionary’s work; and these wise men seeing how rapidly Montana was

developing made plans for the extension of the work of the church in

new fields. Their maps showed them a great unsettled section beyond the

mountains known as the Bitter Root Valley. It would be a hard piece of

work and no tenderfoot could be sent to open up that section. There was

but one man for the new frontier, and obediently, Brother Van took a

last look at the tiny church just dedicated and bade farewell to the

people of Bannack.



The ride before the missionary covered a distance of about one hundred

and fifty miles through the country where the Indians were carrying

on their warfare with the soldiers. The trail which he followed was

the very one taken by Lewis and Clark in September, 1805, on their way

to the Pacific Coast. The explorers had been most hospitably received

by the Indians, whom they found encamped at Ross Hole. They greeted

the “white gods” with all the awe of their simple natures and a feast

and formal council was held in their honor. They called the newcomers

“So-Yap-Po,” meaning “the crowned ones,” because they wore round hats

or caps.



As Brother Van and his pony traveled through the historic country,

sometimes the long grass would reach to the horse’s head on each side

of the trail; then stretches of barren and rocky ground with patches

of sage brush would be reached, and again they would come suddenly to

steep-banked creeks hidden in the tall grass. The road led up through

the pass, now called Gibbon Pass, but the tragic encounter which gave

it that name had but recently taken place.



When Chief Joseph, the leader of the Nez Percés Indians, fully realized

that the United States troops had been sent to drive him and his band

from their valley, he determined to migrate to Canada. The troops were

in hot pursuit, and finding all direct routes cut off, the Indians came

east through Lo Lo Pass into Montana. At Stevensville they paid for all

supplies purchased and gave notice that all that they wanted was to go

on their journey unmolested. When the soldiers in search of assembled

Indians heard at Stevensville about Chief Joseph’s party, they gave

chase and a number of residents of the place joined them.



The Indians camped at Big Hole and the soldiers, under command of

General Gibbon, suddenly found themselves close to the camp one night.

They could hear the sound of Indian voices; so one of the soldiers

climbed a tree and was horrified to see a great many camp-fires

burning. Precautions were taken at once and no camp-fires were kindled

by the white troops. Hard bread had to be their only fare, a not very

substantial food for their need in the fighting on the following

eventful day, August 9, 1877.



When dawn was beginning to push back the shadows of the night, an

Indian herder came out to look after the ponies; he stumbled over the

waiting soldiers. The alarm was given immediately and the herder was

shot and killed. Instantly all was in confusion. Braves forgot their

guns and fled; ponies broke bounds and ran wild; dogs barked; but the

Indians reformed rapidly and the battle was on. It lasted all day and

the Indians fought like demons. They captured the only cannon and two

thousand rounds of ammunition. They set fire to the grass in which the

troops had hid so that the soldiers were nearly suffocated at first,

but the wind changed and the smoke blew in the red men’s faces. The

troops were cheered by this turn in their favor, and fought bravely

and desperately, although they had been so long without proper food

or sleep.



Suddenly the firing ceased. A captured man had told the Indians that

more “walking soldiers” were coming. Fearing to be utterly destroyed

the Indians fled, leaving eighty-nine dead men on the battle-field.

Chief Joseph was compelled to surrender when only eighty miles from

the Dominion line where strategic measures were used. In his desperate

attempt for freedom, and by the record of his later life, he gained the

high esteem of the United States government for his lofty character.

His people had honorable intentions but they found it hard to submit

to the conquering white man.



  Illustration:   Courtesy of the American Bureau of Ethnology.



                  CHIEF JOSEPH, LEADER OF THE NEZ PERCÉS AT THE

                  BATTLE OF BIG HOLE



As Brother Van reached Big Hole on his way to Missoula a scene of

horror greeted his eyes. The bodies of the lately fallen heroes had

been hurriedly buried, for another Indian attack was impending. A

storm had followed which made the earth so soft that the prowling

wild beasts of the plains had exhumed the bodies of the brave men and

were devouring them. The missionary halted in his journey and sent a

messenger to Fort Missoula, which was then in course of erection. From

there a company of men was sent immediately to care for the bodies,

which were taken back to the church for a public funeral. So Brother

Van came for his first service in the new district into a scene of

sorrow and distress. Hearts were tender over the loss of these men and

to the waiting people he spoke words of comfort as he committed the

bodies to the earth. After scenes of terror and bereavement it is not

surprising that a great revival followed, and the new preacher was

again able to find “first members” for “first churches” in that great

section where the dread of the Indians’ fury was always present.



Missoula was the center chosen for the frontier district where Brother

Van was to preach and teach the people. Its name in the Indian language

means “a place of fear” or “at the stream of surprise or ambush.”

The town, which is near the mouth of Hell Gate Canyon, is now a great

distributing point for a farming region and is the site of the State

university. The little church in the settlement of Missoula had been

built by Brother Van’s friend, Dr. Iliff, who had been stationed there

previously for a short period.



Through the busy years spent at Virginia City and Bannack, these two

friends had met and labored frequently together. The experiences of

one holiday journey which they took make a story well worth repeating.

Dr. Iliff, his young bride, and Brother Van drove to Salt Lake City,

where the Rocky Mountain Conference was held in 1875. Although

attendance at the Conference was necessary, their journey was an outing

for them and gave them an opportunity to see civilization once more.

The Presiding Elder had a buggy, and in this the three friends made the

memorable trip. They drove through the wide, dusty prairie and over the

mountains, for they had to cross the main range of the Rockies. Each

night camp was made, and the little wife officiated at the jolly supper

which effaced all memory of the weary traveling.



The twilight hours were the moments when the ties of friendship were

strengthened, and the youthful spirits of the campers prompted many

pranks and contests. As they camped near Idaho Falls one evening the

sport was to determine which could catch the largest trout. This story

will never have a satisfactory ending, for, being a fish story, each

caught the largest, and, of course, no bride could decide against her

husband. The Sabbath days of the outing were taken by the travelers as

rest days for the horses, and as refreshing times for their own souls.

They reached Salt Lake City in good season, and found Bishop Haven

presiding over the Conference, and Brother Van’s old friend, Chaplain

McCabe, singing his way into the hearts of the people.



Conference Sunday came with a rousing sermon by the Bishop. The sermon

over, these two friends felt a longing to explore. Like culprits they

stole away in the afternoon and sought the great Mormon tabernacle.

They gazed in wonder at the huge building with its queer arched roof

which gave the whole structure the appearance of an inverted soup

tureen; then they ventured farther to see how it looked on the inside.

As usual the Mormons were gathering for their great Sunday service,

and the two guests from Montana sat down to listen to the famous Mormon

leader, Brigham Young. The building seats twelve thousand people and

every seat was filled.



After hearing a sermon sharply in contrast with what they had heard

from their own bishop, the curiosity of these Westerners was not

satisfied, so they tarried to examine the building and its surroundings.

When deepening twilight warned them that the time for departure was at

hand, they sought the entrance gate, but lo, the bars were down and no

watchful attendant was there, either to punish the intruders or to let

them out.



Brother Van and Dr. Iliff stood and looked at each other and then at

the high iron fence. Had they come from scenes of Indian troubles and

the hardships of the wide plains to be daunted by such an obstacle

as an iron gate? Off came preachers’ coats. Hats were flung high over

the fence and two agile pioneer ministers climbed over that formidable

barrier and dropped down to earth. Then coats and hats were donned, and

again these inquisitive friends continued their investigating tour.



They found themselves walking along Brigham Street on which stood

Amelia Palace, the residence erected for Young’s favorite wife. As

they looked at the building interestedly, they saw the Mormon leader

himself pacing the walk and followed by two wives. Again the spirit

of adventure prompted them and they dared each other to cross the

street, speak to, and shake hands with the august leader of Mormonism.

No sooner said than done. In a moment the two men were bowing and

introducing themselves as Methodist preachers from the West, and

proffering eager hands. Brigham Young looked at them with an amused

twinkle in his eyes, and cordially shook hands, saying, “I certainly

am glad to shake hands with you. I was a Methodist once myself!”



The friendship of these two young missionaries in the new West grew

deeper and sweeter with the passing days in their work in Montana. At

one time they held united revival services at Virginia City. They rode

into the town unannounced and proceeded to seek a place where they

might hold meetings. The old opera house was secured and there they

began their preaching and singing. The people attended out of curiosity

at first, but a real earnestness came with the passing days, and many

were started on the way toward living a new, clean life.



Billy Blay was one of the men who left off his evil habits. The

evangelists had heard of this notorious drunkard. They went to his

hut with its dirt roof and floor where the poor sot was huddled in his

blankets. They talked with him about other ways of living, and prayed

with him. He promised to come to church, and to the amazement of the

townspeople, Billy Blay not only kept his promise, but he came sober.

During the services he was saved from his sins and took a fresh start

in life. After realizing that his sins would be forgiven, he said,

“Give me pen and paper. I want to write to my wife and children in

Wisconsin.”



That Billy Blay could write was astonishing to the people of the

town, who knew him only as a notorious drunkard. Now he wrote like an

educated man. While he waited for an answer to the letter which broke

a twelve years’ silence, he gave himself into the care of Brother Van

and Dr. Iliff. He had great natural ability, and he spoke to others

about his new experience so effectively that he was at last given an

exhorter’s license and made a third member of the evangelistic group.



After a little time Billy Blay heard from his wife. She was ill, and

had believed him to be dead. Money for his journey back home was raised

in the two institutions of the town that knew him, the church and the

saloon, and the family was reunited. This new preacher gave his life to

missionary work in a logging-camp in Wisconsin, making another link in

the chain of missionary endeavor which will some day bind the world in

a great Christian fellowship.



This first evangelistic trip made by Brother Van and Dr. Iliff

meant much to the new territory of Montana. To-day in making a trip

through the same section, you would travel by rail or automobile, but

everywhere you would find living monuments of the wise pioneering of

these comrade missionaries. Not only new churches, new congregations,

and new members, but in many cases new towns have sprung up where the

partners held a first service.



The two men have always loved to recount the experiences of those

days, and especially to tell about their adventure in crossing Madison

River. After the meetings at Virginia City, the two evangelists had

an itinerary planned ahead. One appointment was at Madison River

schoolhouse. By the mail to Virginia City had come a precious package

from the East for Dr. Iliff’s wife. This little woman had come to the

West gladly with her earnest young husband, but the people at home

had distressing thoughts about the frontier hardships that she had

to endure. There were hardships certainly but of these she never

complained. Now, here was a package from home!



When the evangelists got into the buggy which was to carry them to

the schoolhouse, the precious bundle was carefully stowed away. They

traveled to Madison River, which they had to cross, and found it in

flood with the melted snow from the mountains. The old bridge had been

washed away. So the two young men sat on the edge of the ruins and

talked things over.



“Shall we give up the trip?” asked Dr. Iliff.



“No, we can’t do that. The people are expecting us,” said Brother Van.



“Well, let’s try to cross,” replied his chum.



In they plunged, driving the horses toward the nearest point on the

opposite bank. When they were about one third of the distance across

the river the buggy began to float and the horses began to swim.



“Van, can you swim?”



“Not a lick!”



“Well, you get up on the seat, take that package and keep it dry,”

shouted Dr. Iliff as he jumped out.



He unfastened the horses and they swam to an island in the stream. Then

he began to guide the floating buggy toward the bank. In the meantime

Brother Van sat still, holding the bundle aloft that it might not be

soaked. When they reached the edge of the flood in safety he deposited

the bundle on the seat and climbed out into the water to help push

the buggy up the steep bank. Valiantly they pushed. The buggy went up

slowly and then slid back. Again they boosted and again the slippery

banks failed to hold the load.



“Van, you aren’t pushing!”



“Yes, I am!”



“Well, I’m all played out. Now let us try once more. Now all together!”



They gave a mighty push and the buggy went over. But, alas! the bundle

had slipped out into the water, and as they looked, it was being

rapidly carried down-stream. Iliff, who was standing on the high bank,

called out, “Van, you’d better get that package. It belongs to my wife.”



In the dismay of the moment, Brother Van forgot that he didn’t know

how to swim. Out he struck. With mighty splashes and flounderings, he

overtook the package and brought it to shore. Then those two preachers

stood and looked at each other, wet to the skin, hatless and disheveled,

hands torn and bleeding, sermons no longer dry, and the package

seemingly ruined. In a moment they burst into boyish laughter, and

all was well. While they consulted as to the next move, a ranchman

came along and took them home with him. From a promiscuous jumble

of clothing the preachers were outfitted. When they were dressed and

came into the light of the room and beheld each other, they laughed

again like truant schoolboys. They were comical figures enough in the

makeshift garments of that frontier home. They went to church in those

clothes, and began a revival which meant a great deal to the life of

that community.



The bundle? Oh, that was a fine black silk dress. When the preachers

returned to the ranchman’s home, they found their own clothes dry and

in condition for wearing. The beautiful, lustrous silk found in the

package was hung in rich folds about the room to dry. The water in

Madison River was crystal clear and did not injure the silk, which was

of good grade.



An amazing thing about this evangelistic team was that though of the

East eastern, yet they won immediate favor with the people among whom

they labored. The shrewd Westerners would have detected any insincerity

in the missionaries, and the cowboy’s mission in life seemed to be to

“shoot up” anything not genuine. It is hard for us to-day to imagine

the wild and lawless life on those lonely plains of the great West.

These two men, and many other pioneers for the church, carried on their

ministry in the face of severe handicaps in a frontier region. The

principal difficulties grew out of the isolation of the settlements,

and the slow means of communication with the older parts of the country.



The Missouri River provided the natural means of access to the

Northwest, and as early as 1851 fire-boats began to reach Fort Benton.

For a long period only one boat a year made this hard passage; then

gold was discovered, and there followed a rush of new settlers, so that

in 1866, forty steamers came into the old fur-trading post. For a third

of a century the stage-coach had no rival as the means of travel for

passengers. One of the most famous stage lines was over Mullen’s Trail,

which ran west from Fort Benton for hundreds of miles. This trail was

opened through government land by Captain Mullen and his company of

soldiers for the use of miners. Holliday’s Overland Stage Line played

an important part in the development of the West. It ran from Atchison,

Kansas, to Denver, Colorado, and to Salt Lake City, Utah, where other

lines connected with it. One of these lines extended to Virginia City

in what had been Brother Van’s district, and from there to Helena,

a distance altogether of nineteen hundred miles, usually covered in

twenty-two days.



In order to secure rapid transportation for the mails, the Pony

Express was established in 1861 and maintained for three years. A

band of swift riders, eighty in number, would cover the vast distances

of the prairie in an incredibly short space of time. One rider, for

instance, would leave Sacramento, while another rider started from

St. Joseph, Missouri, at the eastern end of the route. Each would ride

swiftly and as silently as possible, guarding the precious mail at all

hazards, and would come, after fifteen to twenty miles of riding, to a

station where a fresh horse, saddled and bridled, was held by a waiting

agent. The riders were allowed two minutes for the change of horses;

then on they went over the ever-widening prairie to the next station.

The fastest time in which a piece of mail was ever carried was seven

days and seventeen minutes.



Sometimes the station was found to be but a smoking pile of ruins,

and sometimes, alas, the station-keeper would be discovered scalped

by wandering Indians. It is said that only one package was lost in the

three years that the Pony Express was operated. This happened when the

rider was killed after being robbed. Another time, the faithful pony

came in along with the package bound safely to the saddle; his rider

had been killed as he rode.



Omaha was the nearest railroad station, and to reach this distant city

meant a hard journey for the miner who had made his “pile” and wished

to go back home. Gold dust was the only money and it was weighed and

taken at its weight’s value. The traveler could go on horseback or

wagon to Fort Benton and then take passage on a steamboat to Sioux City,

Iowa. Another method of travel was to follow the trail on horseback to

Salt Lake City, and take the train or the stage-coach from there. The

cost of the latter mode of travel can be estimated when it is known

that the sending of a letter in that way cost two dollars and a half.

All travel was dangerous, for with the finding of gold, desperate men

had come west, who robbed and killed for the wealth so hazardously

secured by the miners. Hold-ups were regular occurrences, particularly

between Bannack and Virginia City, a distance of seventy miles.



Miners who had spent months of hard labor in the accumulation of a

few hundred dollars were never heard of again after starting from a

mine to a distant home eastward. Men were robbed in camp, daily and

nightly. Gambling and all forms of evil abounded. Many of the men who

disappeared were found to have been shot ruthlessly. The nature of the

country, with its canyons, gulches, and mountain passes, was especially

adapted to this means of highway robbery. The unpeopled distances

between the mining camps also helped the lawless element to do their

bloody work. Nowhere else on the face of the earth, nor at any period

since men became civilized, have murder, robbery, and social vice

presented such an organized front.



The young territory determined to stop this trade of stage-robbing

and formed a protecting band called the “Vigilantes.” The name is

associated with some of the bloodiest episodes of frontier days. In the

absence of any other protection, the Vigilantes took law into their own

hands, and dealt sternly with the highway robber and murderer. Between

December, 1863, and February, 1864, twenty-four “road agents” were

hanged by the Vigilantes for their crimes against the miners. Two years

later, one million and five hundred thousand dollars’ worth of gold was

taken from Helena to Fort Benton unmolested.



The early Vigilantes were the best and most intelligent men in the

mining section. They saw that in the absence of all law they must

become a law unto themselves, or submit to the bloody code of the

desperadoes by whom they were surrounded. They entered on their work

without knowing how soon they might have to encounter a force greater

than their own. They did their work swiftly and efficiently as

relentlessly they followed the offender. Little mercy was meted out

to the guilty men, and many a lonely tree on the plains held ghastly

reminders of the swift vengeance which overtook the robbers. The

Vigilantes hung many a hardened sinner, giving him first an opportunity

to make his peace with God.



Little by little a change was being wrought in the territory, and the

missionaries were helping to bring about a condition of law and order.

In this period of transformation, Brother Van was “hail fellow well

met” with the people. One gambler said, “I like that old scout, he

plays fair.” His singing helped him to win them, for he would stand

on the hillside and sing, “Shall we Gather at the River,” or “Over and

Over,” and the miners, gamblers, and settlers would come to the service.



  Illustration:   DR. THOMAS C. ILIFF AND BROTHER VAN, WHO HAD MANY

                  ADVENTURES TOGETHER IN THE OPENING WEST



Arriving at a typical mining camp one day, the scout-preacher took

possession of a new building for a service. It proved to be a saloon

such as he had borrowed before. It was an ordinary occurrence for

lights to be snuffed out by bullets in a meeting that did not meet with

approval from the men, but they did not put out the lights when Brother

Van spoke. They liked his simple, sweet message, and, above all, they

liked his singing. The song “The Gospel Train is coming” particularly

pleased them, for the railroad language held new and fascinating words

in a community which was just growing accustomed to the railroad. One

of the men said to the preacher, “If you will sing that song to-morrow

night, I’ll bring forty men to hear you.”



“All right, that’s a bargain,” said the singer.



This man was a leader of the gang. He had a hurdy-gurdy which made

his saloon especially attractive. On the next night forty grizzled men

marched in and took their seats. No lights were put out. No disturbance

was made by the forty who had reserved seats, but something did happen:

that “hurdy-gurdy” man got on board of the “Gospel Train” and brought

along a number of his comrades.









                               CHAPTER X



                     GREAT HEART WITH THE INDIANS





MANY acts of service rendered to his new brothers on his frequent

visits to them had made the Blackfeet Indians know that Brother Van

was truly their friend. One incident in particular is now of interest

to illustrate the character of the red men and the manner in which the

missionary won their liking.



One day when White Plume was chief of the Blackfeet and Piegan tribes,

camp was made and the evening meal was prepared. Into this busy and

picturesque scene came the preacher, and with the aid of an interpreter,

he started to speak the good tidings to these people of the plains.

The Indians were interested and listened respectfully. Suddenly a

runner came quietly but swiftly into the group and uttered an Indian

word. Instantly the audience dissolved. They went so quickly that the

astonished preacher inquired of the interpreter as to the reason of

their going. There was reason enough. While these people were listening

to Brother Van, the Crow Indians, a rival tribe, had come and driven

off the ponies which had been turned out to graze for the night.



When the preacher understood the plight of the Blackfeet, he offered

his own fleet pony to them that they might overtake the raiders.

Brother Van always had a good horse. The herd was easily overtaken and

turned back to the camp. Then, much to the surprise of Brother Van, the

Indians returned to the place of meeting and indicated that they wished

the service to proceed.



Early on the following morning a messenger came to Brother Van

telling him that the Blackfeet were going on a buffalo hunt, and a

formal invitation was delivered requesting him to accompany them.

Taking his sure-footed pony, Brother Van joined the riders, and soon

the excitement of their hunt was on. An Indian honor was then conferred

on this, their well-loved guest. After the herd of buffalo was sighted

and had been started on the run, the Indians signified that the white

man was to have the distinction of killing the magnificent specimen

which was leading the herd. Riding toward the front of the stampeding

beasts, the unskilled marksman picked out the herd leader and shot him

in the head. It was a great shot. An Indian could have done no better.

The herd was a large one, containing nearly one thousand of the great,

brown giants of the plains. Once more the preacher by his prowess had

won the favor of the Blackfeet.



With such experiences as the buffalo hunt, an Indian feast, a hurried

visit to the bed of the sick or dying, and the preaching of the gospel,

the years passed. After serving five years as a missionary at large

without ordination, Brother Van consented to become a Conference Member,

that is to say, a regularly ordained traveling-preacher according

to Conference rules. The first missionary appropriation ever made

to Montana Conference was given to Brother Van when he became the

first regular supply. That allowance was three hundred and twenty-five

dollars. He was given the Sun River and Smith River charge as his first

aggressive work in North Montana.



So the Methodist circuit-rider started out once more on his pony with

his little all in his saddle-bags. A journey was still one of many

hazards, for Indians were everywhere and any sign of fear would have

been fatal, while any weakness would have met with scorn from the

cowboys. Brother Van visited Sun River, a settlement on the overland

freight trail between Helena and Fort Benton, where he organized the

first Methodist church north of the mountains. First, Brother Van

held a meeting in this settlement and then started a church building.

Afterward, he had to rescue the church from the sheriff’s hammer, but,

finally, he completed the building――assuming responsibility for the

rest of the debt. By and by there came a great day when he preached the

dedication sermon of a church free from debt.



To this very settlement at Sun River, the tenderfoot Easterner had come

with the Adjutant from Fort Shaw shortly after his arrival in Montana

several years before, and had announced his desire to hold a service.

The service had been held in the cabin home of Mr. Charles A. Bull. Now,

as an experienced plainsman and missionary, Brother Van came again and

built a church, over which through the busy years since then, he has

kept loving watch.



In Philbrook, Judith Basin, Brother Van found that Indians were

stealing horses and terrifying settlers. Prowling bands of raiders

were scattered all through the region. Again the scout-preacher was

frequently in danger as he went about his ministry. Riding one day

along the bank of the Cut Bank River, he saw a powerful Indian in full

war-regalia, making rapidly toward the crossing to which he, too, was

going. Believing that discretion was the better part of valor, Brother

Van turned his horse into a coulee, and rode hastily into the deep

shelter of the ravine. From that vantage ground an approaching enemy

was at the mercy of the watcher.



The Indian pursued him to the entrance and then gave up the chase. Had

he known that the white man was unarmed, this history might never have

been written, for the Indian was out to get revenge upon the whites,

and the story of his pursuit afterward created nation-wide interest. It

is a gruesome story, but has much of value as it reveals some reasons

for the Indian traits which our government has not always understood in

the past.



The first scene was enacted when a troop of United States soldiers

under Colonel Baker who were quelling Indian troubles, came into an

Indian village while the braves were out raiding. They laid waste

the camp and killed some three hundred women and children. When the

Indian men returned they found desolation, and, of course, could not

understand the reason. All that they could think of doing was to set

forth again on a raid of devastation. One big brave, Spoo Pee, made a

vow to kill the first white man he met, for had not the white men taken

the life of his aged mother?



The other scene was enacted when a Canadian prospector having seen

enough of western life came down from the North on his way to the

nearest railway station that he might return to his home in the East.

He drove a fine team hitched to a good wagon. As he journeyed he met

two Indians, one a big brave, the other a stripling of a boy. The

Canadian asked his way. The Indian offered himself as a guide to the

wealthy traveler and as such was accepted.



A friendship seemed to spring up between the white man and his red

companions as they proceeded. The first camp was made and on the next

day they were setting forth again when the boy, Good Rider, spied some

deer in the distance and asked the loan of a gun that he might bring

fresh meat for their evening meal. Walmesley, the Canadian traveler,

promptly loaned him his gun and the boy went on his quest for meat.

Spoo Pee, the Indian brave, now took his own gun and shot the white man.

He threw the body on the muddy bank of the Cut Bank River along which

they had been riding.



With the fine horses in their possession, the two Indians came to Fort

Shaw, a Piegan Agency, where Major Young was in charge. They remained

over night and then went on. These visitors caused much comment at

the agency. Curiosity was aroused because the horses which they were

driving were much finer than red men usually had. They were well kept

and well fed. The second cause for speculation was that the dog which

had come with them stayed behind after the departure of the Indians. An

Indian’s dog is most faithful. He follows in spite of hunger, distance,

or hardships, but here was a dog which preferred the agency to the

master.



One day a traveler appeared who reported finding the body of a white

man on the bank of the Cut Bank River. The Major sent a party to

investigate. Among them was the agency doctor. As the body was examined,

the doctor noticed a peculiar scar on the heel of the victim, and he

exclaimed, “I went swimming with a man once who had a scar exactly

like that one. The man’s name was Walmesley.” Detectives were put on

the case; Spoo Pee was overtaken, and with the boy, Good Rider, was put

into jail. The agency doctor, Major Young, and his daughter became the

chief witnesses.



Miss Young describes the journey to court in the thirty-below-zero

weather. As she was almost ready to start for Helena, an old, dirty

squaw came to see her, and throwing her arms around Miss Young’s neck,

implored her to save her boy. This was Good Rider’s mother. The woman

was unwashed and disheveled, because it was the custom of the tribe

that no ordinary practise of cleanliness should be observed when

an individual was in trouble. Miss Young brought Good Rider back to

his mother but Spoo Pee was committed to prison. From the day of his

sentence to jail no word or sound passed Spoo Pee’s lips for twenty

years. After a few years he was considered a harmless lunatic and moved,

first to Michigan, and then to an asylum in Washington.



One day a party of western visitors came into the corridors of the

asylum. A woman of the party, Mrs. Ella Clark, observed the pathetic,

blank face of Spoo Pee, and began to speak in an Indian language.

The prisoner observed her with something akin to interest. Failing to

secure a clearer response from him, the woman began to croon an Indian

lullaby. She sang as a mother to a child. A look of dazed intelligence

appeared on the face of the prisoner. Eagerly Mrs. Clark ceased

her singing and began to speak to him. She told of tribal wars and

conquests. She repeated traditions held most sacred. The attendants and

keepers watched her efforts interestedly. At last from Spoo Pee’s long

sealed lips there broke an Indian word. The kindly woman’s victory was

complete, and with tears flowing unchecked, Mrs. Clark told the Indian

of his people.



She explained to the keeper the reason that the deed had been committed;

how Spoo Pee had returned to his village on that dreadful day and had

found the women all slain. The prisoner told of his strange vow and

of the long silent years. Spoo Pee was pardoned and he returned to his

tribe but only sorrow was his lot. New and strange customs had arisen

since he had gone away. His family had become scattered. He could not

learn the new ways, and he pined for the friends who had gone. In two

years the broken spirit of the red man went to its long rest.



It was this revengeful warrior that Brother Van had met at the river

crossing, but danger held no terrors for him, and that night in the

coulee, near the scene of the tragic murder of the Canadian prospector,

he took the saddle from his pony, pillowed his head on it, and slept

peacefully with the stars smiling down on him. God’s protection was

with the man who had a vision of the life of peace and righteousness

which could come to the West only through the gospel that it was his

privilege to preach.



The Epworth Piegan Mission is ministering to these Indians to-day

under the leadership of one of Brother Van’s “boys,” Rev. A. W. Hammer,

who, with his talented wife, is continuing the service begun many years

ago. Mr. Hammer is peculiarly fitted for this task because he knows the

habits and language of the people. He was but a youth when he went west

to the plains of Texas as a cowboy in 1877. Later he came to Montana

and worked on a ranch not far from Chinook. He craved the opportunity

to enjoy the finer pleasures of life, and when a literary society was

started at Chinook, he rode in from the ranch to attend it.



One night the meeting place was deserted. Everybody was at the revival

meeting. Taking his pal with him, Hammer went to have some fun. They

sat on the back seat and made flippant remarks about the meeting, but

confessed to each other that they liked the preacher’s singing. The

next night found them on that same back seat. A change came to young

Hammer in this meeting and he altered his manner of life. He joined

the church and took charge of the Sunday-school. He was later given a

preacher’s license. Then he began to want an education that he might

work for his Master more acceptably. He attended school and college and

went back to the range to ride and to serve as a shepherd of people,

instead of as a cowboy. His life exemplifies the ideal missionary to

the Indians.



In Brother Van’s new district were the famous great falls of the

Missouri, which Lewis and Clarke had heard roaring in the distance as

they pushed across the plains. Perplexed as to the cause of the strange

sound that rolled to them over the lifeless prairies, they traveled

seven miles before they reached the spot where the great river takes

its tremendous plunge. The magnitude of the falls astonished them

beyond measure. The largest falls were given separate names later and

became known as Great Falls, Rainbow Falls, and Crooked Falls. It is

claimed by local residents that the water in Crooked Falls runs in

every direction, even upstream. Great power-plants are built along the

river at this point, and they produce power second only to Niagara.



When Brother Van reached the settlement of Great Falls on his first

visit, it was nothing but a great undeveloped possibility. “Here we

must have a church,” said this apostle of first things. An ambitious,

far-seeing group of men constituting the Townsite Company was

interviewed. They gave several lots to the enthusiastic dreamer of a

greater day for Montana. With the assured membership of two devoted

souls and the gift of land, a church was started.



Is this record of “first things” beginning to make you dizzy? Does

the recounting make you weary? But suppose you were the missionary!

Through heat and cold, through drought and rain, over green prairie and

bleak desert, you would have to travel. You would have met plainsmen

and Indians, friends and foes. You would have endured hunger and

thirst. You would have rested under the stars on the open prairie and

in the rude shelter afforded by the ranchmen’s bunks. You would have

been obliged to be the leader in the building of first churches and

first parsonages. All this costs energy and vitality, as Brother Van,

seemingly tireless though he was, once discovered.



   Illustration:  BROTHER VAN WAS “HAIL FELLOW WELL MET” WITH THE

                  PEOPLE



One day death seemed about to claim the scout-missionary. He was very

weary and very ill, for mountain fever had him in its firm hold. Then

how the little churches rallied to their friend! After much praying and

after careful nursing, he was sent on a vacation that he might get well.

This was the only sick leave that he has ever had. Forty-five years

Brother Van has spent with his “shoulder against the horizon.” He has

pushed the frontier back and back, and in all those years he has never

been ill but once; then nature demanded a rest.



Leaving his friends greatly concerned over his condition, Brother Van

went to Seattle, Washington, to recuperate. That rest period turned

out to be something of a joke. In an old record of the Battery Street

Church in Seattle, there is an entry showing that certain meetings were

held in the church at this time, and noting that the evangelist was

W. W. Van Orsdel. He had gone away in October. In December he was back

in Montana holding revival meetings from Helena to Glendive, a distance

of two hundred and forty miles.









                              CHAPTER XI



                      BROTHER VAN AND NEW MONTANA





THE building of railroads through the state of Montana brought a rapid

development. The section around Great Falls became a prosperous farming

country. The settlement, therefore, formed a new center for the church,

and Brother Van came to this district, not as a missionary at large,

nor junior preacher, nor circuit-rider this time, he came now as a

presiding elder, or district superintendent for all of that part of

Montana east of the Rocky Mountains and north of the Musselshell River.

It was known as the North Montana Mission and was about five twelfths

of the total area of the state. Let us get some idea concerning this

new work with which Brother Van was busy by making a comparison.

The whole of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island,

Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and the District of

Columbia could be placed within the bounds of the district and still

leave four thousand square miles of territory.



In all this area there were three hundred and fifty-five members of

Brother Van’s church and fifty-three probationers. There were ten

church buildings altogether. This property was valued at twenty-five

thousand dollars. There were four parsonages valued at four thousand

dollars. The twenty Sunday-schools had a membership of nine hundred

and twenty-five. The ten preachers received five thousand, six hundred

and fifty-one dollars a year, or an average of five hundred and sixty

dollars each. The churches gave four hundred and seventy-six dollars to

benevolences.



Many of the people whom Brother Van now served came from Eastern homes

and were familiar with ideals of culture and refinement. They had cut

loose from the East with its old associations and conventionalities,

and had come to face a new life on the frontier so full of promise.

Imagine a town of two thousand inhabitants composed of people from

every state in the Union, and from every civilized country in the world,

of every color, race, and creed, speaking fifteen or twenty languages,

and clinging to varying religious beliefs, and you will then have an

idea of a mining town such as Brother Van found as he traveled through

his district. The West was still, however, the easy prey for evil,

and at every crossroad and station could be seen the sign, “Saloon and

Licensed Gambling.” The gamblers and saloon men were leading citizens,

and they had to be reckoned with. Brother Van had been a prohibitionist

always. He had seen the effect of alcohol in his boyhood days,

especially in the oil regions. As he grew all too familiar with the

dreadful fire-water which demoralized and beggared the Indians whom he

sought to emancipate, a new hatred of the vile stuff took possession

of him.



The Rev. George Logan tells a story of Brother Van as district

superintendent which illustrates the spirit of comradeship that he

shares with all men, even the saloon men and gamblers. On one Sunday

morning Mr. Logan asked for a good collection to make up the district

superintendent’s salary, saying, “If I don’t get it this morning, I’ll

come again tonight.” The collection was not big enough, and true to his

word the second collection was asked for. One man put a stack of six

silver dollars on the plate and so the amount received was sufficient

to make up the sum required for the unpaid salary.



Going down town next day Mr. Logan met the man of the silver dollars,

who with a grin asked, “Did you raise Brother Van’s money last night?”



“I did,” was the pastor’s reply.



“Did you notice that stack of silver dollars on the plate?”



“I did,” said Mr. Logan again.



“Well, I’ll tell you a story if you’ll promise not to get angry about

it.”



“I promise,” said the preacher.



“Two men at the service on Sunday morning remembered afterward that

Brother Van’s salary was short, and they agreed to play for the money

in the afternoon. If A. won, the money was to be Brother Van’s; if B.

did, Brother Van lost. Word went around and the saloon filled with

sports to watch the game. If A. won, the crowd yelled, ‘The Lord gets

that!’ and if B. was lucky, ‘That goes to the devil!’”



A. had won, and the unsuspecting District Superintendent’s salary was

paid by the successful gambler. Mr. Logan looked the narrator in the

eye, and said, “I’m so glad I got that money; it has been in the hands

of the devil long enough. Brother Van will put it to a better use.”



It was through many unique incidents and strange experiences that

Brother Van’s work was built up. Steadily the character of the country

changed and another generation was growing up. Stalwart sons and

daughters of the settlers began to try to win a means of education in

the desert. They looked beyond the shining mountains to college and to

seminary. As Brother Van traveled from place to place he pondered over

this problem. No children of his own will look to him for education,

but had he not claimed spirituality in this wide land for the children?

He saw that the boys and girls were eager for larger social privileges

and for a higher intellectual life; so he decided that Montana should

have a Christian school. For thirteen years he toiled to secure one;

other men’s names appeared on the committee formed for the enterprise

and in time disappeared, but the name of William Wesley Van Orsdel

always headed the list. He was not an educated man as far as the study

of books was concerned. Only in the School of Experience and in the

Seminary of Hard Knocks had he taken postgraduate courses. But he was

now determined that the young people of Montana should have first, a

Christian influence, and, second, an education.



Because of that thinking, planning, and praying of the missionary,

there came a day when the capital city, Helena, had a new asset. Five

miles from the center of the town stood a fifty-thousand-dollar brick

building dedicated to the young people of Montana. The campus of

two hundred and thirty-five acres was beautified, and the school was

opened. The distance from town, the newness of the undertaking, the

indifference of the people, all proved insurmountable difficulties

to every one but Brother Van. For ten years the school struggled to

succeed while the trustees felt almost constantly that they must close

it, but Brother Van would not consent. Then a radical measure was

adopted. The school was moved to Helena, where to-day Montana Wesleyan

University stands in friendly neighborliness to the capitol building.

Montana Wesleyan antedated all state schools in Montana for higher

education.



Brother Van watched those two buildings on Capitol Hill with a

peculiar yearning. He remembered the town of Helena as it had looked

when he reached it on that summer day in 1872. He remembered the

first capitol building in Bannack, where it was his lot to bury the

four plainsmen who had lost their lives because the Indians could not

understand the coming of the white man into their hunting ground. The

first legislature was held in two rooms in a log cabin. Tallow candles

emphasized the gloom. Sheet-iron stoves made the pent-up air seem

stifling. One desk and a bench in each room completed the furnishing of

this first capitol. The library was composed of one copy of the Idaho

Statutes.



On February 22, 1889, Montana became a state and Helena became the

capital. Helena of Last Chance Gulch fame had grown rapidly, as its

eastern seekers of gold became housed in cabins, wickiups, shacks, and

tents. Helena became a wicked city, where Sunday was the wildest day of

the wild week. Then came a period of reconstruction. Schools were built,

imposing sites were sought for churches; the dugout school disappeared

from the prairie, and in its place came the little red schoolhouse. The

first public school had been opened on March 5, 1866, in Virginia City.

There were no text-books. Every child brought any book he might possess.

Now schools were becoming common in Montana. Daily papers were needed

and in place of the Montana _Post_ which had been published in the

cellar of a log cabin in Virginia City and dates from May, 1868, came

the Montana _Record Herald_.



Montana had a state pride and no man could surpass Brother Van as

he sang the praises of his adopted state. As civilization progressed

the new State-house now standing on Capitol Hill was needed. This

was a thrilling time in the life of the young state. When the

imposing building was completed and ready to be dedicated, Montana’s

representatives gathered and stood with bared heads as Brother Van

offered this prayer:



“O thou God of our fathers, we draw near to thee in the name of thy

Son, our Saviour, to acknowledge the many blessings of which we are

the recipients, on this our nation’s birthday; the day when this was

declared to be a free and independent nation, and which now stands

out among the nations as a star of the first magnitude. O God, may

thy presence ever abide with our nation. We invoke thy blessing on our

President, and those associated with him in directing the affairs of

the nation.



“We are here in this great new commonwealth, pioneer men and women,

who came here in the earlier settlements and opened up the way for

success; we are here to-day with our children and associates to

honor the state and thee. We are here to dedicate and set apart this

magnificent building, this capitol building, to the purpose for which

it was built. Let thy blessing rest on the exercises of this hour. May

thy blessing rest on the government of the state, the officers, the

capitol commission, and all who have been associated with the planning

and completing of the building.



“Let thy blessing be upon our representatives, on both houses of

congress, on state senators and legislators, who shall meet in this

house from time to time. May we all realize that great is that people

whose God is the Lord. May we flee evil. Amen.”



The walls of the Senate Chamber of that great building are adorned with

paintings done by Mr. Charles Russell, who came to Montana in 1881 and

achieved fame as the cowboy artist. No creation of his brain or brush

ever exploits any theme but Montana and the West. The modern home of

Mr. Russell is at Great Falls and in the spacious grounds surrounding

it stands a log cabin. Let us visit it with Brother Van, who is an

old-time friend of the owner.



  Illustration:   Painting by Charles M. Russell.



                  RIDING TOWARD THE FRONT OF THE STAMPEDING BEASTS,

                  BROTHER VAN SHOT THE HERD LEADER IN THE HEAD



The porch has no board floor and is low, so we can see the roof strewn

with buffalo horns and skulls. On the stockade-door the latch-string

hangs out, and it means just that, a true Western hospitality. We pull

the string, the latch lifts, and we stand in the presence of the cowboy

artist. He looks both cowboy and artist. His long hair is thrown back

from a strong and sun-browned face, and this suggests the artist; so

does the scarlet sash that he wears. His flannel shirt is open at the

throat, and his Khaki trousers are thrust into high boots, showing the

habit of the cowboy.



Around that interesting room is a record of the history of Montana.

War-bonnets and tomahawks hang from pegs. In a rack are rifles

which tell the story of firearm progress from the flintlock to the

Springfield, and then to the Winchester. Indian beads, rugs, baskets,

and blankets form a wealth of color on the walls, and before a great

fireplace stands an easel, and lo, the artist is telling our story in

a finer way. There are the figures of Lewis and Clarke on the canvas.

An Indian village is in the background, and in the center we recognize

the woman guide, Sacajawea. She is meeting her childhood friend who had

been taken prisoner when she was.



As he watched Montana develop with the anxiety that a father gives

to the growth of an awkward, beloved boy, Brother Van saw a new need.

Always had he ministered to sick and dying miners, cowboys, and

settlers. But as the years passed he saw that it would be a great

advantage to the state if the sick and dying could be cared for with

all the help that modern medical science affords. He realized the

necessity of placing patients under religious influence and teaching.

The cure of souls was to him even more important than the cure of

bodies; so he began to talk and to pray for a Christian hospital.

Probably fifty thousand dollars has passed through Brother Van’s hands

in the time he has served Montana, but he owns no home or cattle. Even

the pony is no more and a Ford is not its successor. The salary for his

first year’s work was nothing, and for the second it was seventy-five

dollars. In later years he received seventeen hundred dollars. Yet

every Protestant enterprise has had an impetus from Brother Van’s

pocketbook.



He interested his church in the need of a hospital, and deaconesses

were brought west and a hospital was started. Every one but the prime

mover became discouraged by the hardships that the project encountered,

but he continued to sing, to pray, to praise Montana, and to work

for Montana. In Great Falls now stands a beautiful hospital, entirely

fireproof and modern in every convenience. In the hall of the building

hangs a painting. It is a western scene, and shows a man riding

furiously toward the leader of a herd of buffalo; Indians ride behind

as interested spectators to the shooting of the large beast. The

inscription below is “Brother Van shooting buffalo,” and it illustrates

the story already told. The artist is Charles M. Russell.



Across the street is the Van Orsdel Home where white-capped and

swift-footed nurses reside, and this is the story of the building.

Once upon a time some gamblers, cowboys, and saloon men decided that

they, too, wanted to tell Brother Van that they wished him well. He

had fought the saloon with a zeal that could not be misunderstood, but

he fought fairly. He hated the business and told its supporters so in

no mincing language; but he didn’t hate the men and they knew that.

They decided to raise one thousand dollars and give it to him that

he might buy a home of his own, or that he might have the money to do

as he wished. The fund was started. At first it grew slowly and then

by bounds. It was put in a bank and as time went by the deposit was

forgotten. A gambler, who was on his death-bed, wanted to see Brother

Van. He answered the call at once, and was able to help the dying

man hear from the Master, “Thy sins are forgiven thee.” In his last

moments the man told about the money that was lying in the bank and

accumulating interest. Brother Van drew it out and soon a nurses’ home

was started.



Within the walls of the Van Orsdel Home is a home life of rare culture

and beauty. Many girls are sheltered and trained there who were brought

to the pioneer preacher as infants twenty years earlier that he might

lay hands on them in baptism. At the beginning of each school year

of the Nurses’ Training School, Brother Van greets those uniformed

students with encouraging words and with a tender appeal for loyalty

to the Master whom he serves.



One of Brother Van’s enterprises seemed not to be of God’s planning.

That was the original home of Montana Wesleyan, five miles from

Helena. People spoke of the neglected building as a mistake and an

expensive failure. Boys threw stones through every pane of glass in

the three-story building. A family of lively coyotes occupied the big

dining-room; bats took up their abode in the dark corners; spiders spun

their webs unhindered over the ceiling, and owls seemingly joined the

scoffers in their derision of the enterprise. Occasionally a solitary

figure would come into the building and kneeling in the dust, would

implore God to give him a reason against the prevalent unbelief. He

would ask God to use these buildings for his own service, and for the

Christian uplift of young people. Surely there was some use for them.

The years passed, and this solitary figure began to see another need

for his cherished Montana. The young people had long since been coming

to the university on Capitol Hill, but in the wide expanses of the

state there were yet many children unschooled. There were orphans to

be protected, and other children too far from the district school for

daily attendance. These became a new and dear care to Brother Van.



  Illustration:   THE VAN ORSDEL HOME FOR NURSES IS ONE OF THE MANY

                  INSTITUTIONS FOUNDED BY BROTHER VAN



Again the old pocketbook made a beginning. As the hard-earned money

went for the house-cleaning a gift came to Brother Van; a grateful

ranchman presented him with a cow. It was driven promptly to the two

hundred-and-thirty-five-acre campus which surrounded the neglected

building out by Helena, so that the few children he might gather there

should be fed. The building, so recently the home of the bats and the

coyotes, was cleaned and repaired and put in readiness for its first

pupil, a child whom a dying mother committed to the care of Brother Van.

Others needing school advantages were found and placed in the renovated

building. The title page of the first _Annual_ published by the

students of this school of faith is inscribed: “To Brother Van as an

expression of love from the class of 1915.”



Not all the time was Brother Van building churches. There are one

hundred churches in Montana built by him, and about fifty parsonages

due to his labors, besides six hospitals and two large institutions of

learning, but there is another piece of work which he has been doing

between times for the church he loves. Since 1876 he has represented

the Methodist Church of Montana in the denomination’s great governing

body, the General Conference. At the meeting at Saratoga Springs in

1916, one evening was given over to the two friends, Dr. Thomas C.

Iliff and Brother Van. They recounted the struggles and triumphs

of their western life, and sang the old songs which had carried

inspiration to the people of the west.



A few years ago Brother Van made a long trip across the country and

came again to Gettysburg, where, as a boy, fifty-four years before,

he had witnessed that great battle. A large part of the land where the

battle was fought has been bought by the United States government, and

the government and the states spent seven million dollars in erecting

the memorials that do honor to the men who fell in those July days of

1863. Brother Van saw again the house in which President Lincoln was

entertained when he made that memorable address familiar to-day to

every schoolboy and schoolgirl. He recalled how he had gone to seek

the sad-faced man. He had come into his presence a towsled, barefoot,

awkward boy, and with new appreciation he remembered how that great

man had shaken hands with him. Since then other presidents have shaken

hands with the boy grown into a missionary. Grant, Roosevelt, and Taft

have all done honor to the man so well loved in Montana.









                              CHAPTER XII



                          SEVENTY YEARS YOUNG





THE haze of Indian summer hangs over the prairies of Montana as they

flaunt their golden flowers. There could be no more perfect days than

these for a journey with Brother Van through the great state. One might

almost call it his parish, so closely has he been associated with the

settlement and growth of vast stretches of its territory. He shall be

our guide as we visit the widely scattered villages and thriving towns,

where he is eagerly welcomed by men, women, and children of all faiths

and of none. There are no strangers to Great Heart of the Indians.

Brother Van greets every one he meets with the Indians’ guttural

“Oi-Oi-Oi,” meaning “How do you do!” When we ask why he always uses the

expression, he replies, “Oh, just to show that I’m a friendly Indian.”



We start our trip at Fort Benton, where, in a well kept park, stand

the ruins of the old fort, a crumbling relic of days forever past.

The stockade is gone and only a blockhouse remains. It is carefully

guarded, for inside are precious relics of the past. Let us stand on

the very spot where Brother Van celebrated his first Fourth of July

in Montana by eating a dinner of jerked buffalo meat. Our eyes sweep

the horizon and we try to imagine the scenes of former days when over

those flashing waters of the Missouri came bull-boats or birch canoes,

bringing precious furs to the Northwest Fur Company’s post.



In the town itself we pass the site of the old mud saloon where, on

that far-away Sunday, the tenderfoot missionary preached to a curious

throng. What of the church life of to-day? We spend a Sabbath in the

historic town and go to the old mother church. It is a small building,

simple in style, but we enter it in a spirit of reverence. Repairs are

in progress; with his own hands the minister, a college and seminary

graduate, has painted the woodwork and papered the walls. He has been

aided in the evenings by the earnest men of his congregation.



The days of the Northwest Fur Company seem very remote when the new

generation, with a small group from the older one, kneel to receive

Holy Communion. The life of the trapper and trader, starved and godless,

seems a haunting and an impossible dream. Yet the pastor has his

problems. His church must be enlarged and modernized to meet the social

demands of the little city. He must find means for providing recreation

and wholesome entertainment in connection with the church, so that the

people of the community may not have to depend for their amusement on

the cheap “movie” theater with its sensuous appeals. He must travel

far out on the wide prairie to care for the ranchers who are setting up

homes in these lands that under new methods of cultivation are proving

to be far more fruitful than it was once considered possible for them

to be.



The scout-missionary is still keen about first churches, and we

accompany him on a visit to a little town near Fort Benton. We go to

the schoolhouse. We are early; so we will play janitor. The bell is

to be rung. The songbooks are to be distributed. Brother Van does not

preach this time, but his influence is felt all through the service. He

stands in the closing moments and urges upon the people a new loyalty

to Jesus Christ and a new loyalty to the church as the center of their

common life. All who will so pledge are asked to come and take him by

the hand, and every man, woman, and child in the little group comes

forward. Among them are three soldiers, guards in the uncertain days

of war of the big bridge which swings over the Teton River at the

outskirts of the town.



One of Brother Van’s churches is in process of building in this town.

You may smile at its dimensions. It has one main room and a basement

which is to be cut up into smaller social rooms.



“Well, Brother Van, when is it to be finished?” he is asked.



“Don’t know, Sister!”



“Why not finish it right away?”



“I’d love to, but not one cent of debt is to be placed on this or on

any other church I have anything to do with.”



“But, can these few people build this church?”



“They can and will, with the help of the Board of Home Missions.”



“Ah, if people only knew the need of home missions, we would not have

to see these churches which we try to put in the new centers struggle

and languish as they do,” he adds.



“Why try to have a church so soon, then?”



“Ah, Sister, that is the point. We must claim these new towns for our

Christ. The devil has his agents at work in the saloon and dance halls.

Why should we give up to him?”



In that distant time when Brother Van made his first visit to the

Indian agency, he traveled in an army post wagon. As we seek the

Blackfeet Indians, we travel with him on a railroad train. His vivid

stories of the towns through which we pass make us realize how much the

frontier owes to missionary influence. Brother Van gets off at every

station to look around.



“See that church house,” he exclaims proudly, for he always calls it

that. “Isn’t it beautiful?”



It is small and in need of paint. Compared, however, to the saloon

building in which he had probably held the first service, it is

beautiful.



  Illustration:   GREAT HEART WITH A BLACKFOOT BROTHER AND HIS FAMILY



“Browning! Browning!” calls the conductor. Nothing here but a small

station.



“This way, Brother Van,” calls a voice from the starlit darkness, and

soon we are on our way to the Indian reservation and the parsonage home

of Rev. A. W. Hammer, the cowboy preacher. A cheerful welcome awaits

us in the little prairie home. Here in the shadow of the snow-clad

mountains is symbolized the Montana dreamed about by the boy from

Gettysburg. A home has been established. A trained preacher ministers

to the Indians.



On the following morning we find spread out before us a scene of

rich beauty as we look across the fields from which the grain has been

harvested. All the members of the household gather in front of the

cottage where there stands a straight mountain pine, carefully trimmed

and braced. From a home-made cabinet the oldest daughter has taken a

carefully folded bundle, and now at her bidding it is fastened to the

ropes swaying from the pine tree. A steady pull brings Old Glory up

to catch the breeze while the shining mountains seem to smile approval.

The son places his hat over his heart, while Brother Van, his head

bared, his face transfigured, sings, “O say can you see by the dawn’s

early light” and girlish voices catch up the refrain. No flag raising

in the presence of statesmen and of armies could be more impressive.

Here one sees the loyal soul of the west laid bare. This is the America

that the forces of the Christian church, the Christian home, and the

Christian school are building on the vast plains and through the

mountain valleys of the younger states.



The drive to the church in a lumber wagon is a novel experience, and we

understand why fur overcoats are called “life preservers,” for the air

gives a foretaste of the winter’s cold. The congregation of Indians,

plainsmen, business men, and college graduates gathers. The Indians

interest us the most. These are the adopted brothers of Great Heart.

These are the people whom William Van Orsdel loved before he had seen

them and whom he had left the old Gettysburg home to serve. He has seen

disease, ignorance, and intemperance threatening to wipe out the race,

and he has had to give a large part of his energy to teaching a better

way of life to the white man who is so largely responsible for the

conditions that exist; but he has persevered in finding ways to help

his red brothers.



In the United States there are now three hundred and thirty-six

thousand Indians; nearly one third of these are unchurched. There are

many who have no opportunity to know the living God, yet they were

the first Americans. Their loyalty was proved when nine thousand young

braves entered the army and navy to fight for a world democracy, and

one third of those entered the service through enlistment. These wards

of the nation, though driven back from wide prairie to reservations,

have been taught trades and agriculture. Twenty million dollars

worth of Liberty Bonds were bought by Indians. The war has given the

Indian an opportunity to show his fine qualities of manhood, and to

demonstrate his fitness for those privileges of citizenship which have

been denied him. Hereafter, too, this native American will be a citizen

of the world. “They have learned to step to the drum-beat of democracy,”

says Hon. Cato Sells, “and they will come out of the conflict an

element of real and progressive strength in our National life.” Like

many others who have fought abroad, they will ask the churches and

schools to put into practise the principles that they defended “over

there.”



The teachers to succeed Brother Van, Mr. Hammer, and all of that host

of devoted workers who have given their whole lives for the building of

a Christian civilization in the west must come from the young people of

the church. Young men and young women of the new generation must have

a vision clear enough to see the beckoning hands that point the way

to great unfinished tasks. The high purpose of the boy from Gettysburg

must fill other lives that will take up the new tasks, as hard as the

old, perhaps harder, which the changing times have brought to Montana.



Leaving the Indians, we find ourselves on the railroad and bound

for the new frontier. The monotony of the prairie is only relieved

by homes and schoolhouses but these appear at intervals as we travel.

Occasionally we pass small towns clustering around grain elevators,

which show the new day of agriculture. We come at last to the end of

our journey to the new section and from the small station we drive to

a settler’s shack on a claim. Surely tales of frontier life have been

exaggerated, for here are warmth, blooming plants, books, and papers.

The homesteader is a retired preacher.



“We must get the surveyor while you are here, Brother Van, and mark up

that lot for the church,” says our host.



“A church out on this prairie!” we exclaim.



“Yes, do you see yonder that grain elevator and a few buildings?

That is a new town starting and we must have a church. A saloon and a

pool-room are there already. The storekeeper has given us a lot for the

church,” he explains.



This is a wise merchant who realized that the new town would not be fit

for his family unless the church was the central interest. With pick

and compass we go; Brother Van steps off the distance, and the faithful

pick finds the marker.



“The corner-stone will be right here,” says the master of ceremonies.

The spade is stuck into the rich soil while the people cheer; but

Brother Van is silent; his latest church is being started. He is

anxious that the children of the new town shall have a chance of a

Christian education. The government will see to the schoolhouses, but

the responsibility of the churches rests on Brother Van and his aids,

even on you and me.



We continue our sight-seeing tour of Montana and reach Helena at a

time when the city is thronged with visitors to the Fair. Yonder is

the Capitol, and in friendly nearness is a smaller building; it is

Montana Wesleyan University where college is opening. Brother Van has

a tumultuous greeting. The Board of Trustees has just declared for a

fifty-thousand-dollar enlargement of the institution. The students and

President Sweetland are riotously happy. Visitors make speeches in the

chapel. One man does not need the well-chosen introductory speech from

the new president. He is not allowed to finish it.



“Who’s all right?” sings out a yell-leader.



“Brother Van! Brother Van!” comes roaring back from the eager crowd.



No mention is made by the pioneer of his part in the enterprise which

has made the Christian education of these eager students possible. When

he finishes speaking, a demand is made: “A song! A song!” So he sings

“Diamonds in the Rough” for them. Then we hasten to a meeting of the

Board of Trustees, and arrive in time, for Brother Van is never late

for an engagement.



“Now, let’s go to the Fair!” he says. To go to the Montana State Fair

with Brother Van is to become almost as much a center of interest as

the prize pumpkin or the heaviest sheaf of wheat. The hold the man has

on the people of the state begins to dawn on you.



“Hello, Van, old scout.”



“Why, Brother Van, how is the church at ――――?”



“Isn’t this Brother Van?” ask children, shyly, as we pass.



Out in the enclosure a flag is to be raised. They send a messenger to

Brother Van to say that he is wanted to offer the prayer. After the

prayer, Governor Stewart is introduced, and the heart of the Eastern

visitor is stirred to hear from him how great a part this new state

took in the great world struggle for democracy; how great an outpouring

of its wealth there was for the needs of the government and for the

relief of suffering; and how large a number of the boys from these

thinly peopled plains left their homes to take their places in the

ranks of the armies of freedom.



It is a short drive over to the once owl-haunted, coyote-inhabited

building, which for a time seemed to be Brother Van’s mistake.

Children’s voices call a glad greeting, for now it is the Montana

Deaconess School. Out on the campus is an old building which the boys

have fitted up, and which they dignify by the name of “gym.” Class

work which meets the regular school standards is done in this home,

but that is only a part of its work. The development of strong, helpful

Christian character is the great task to which the earnest teachers who

labor here are devoting themselves.



Now we visit the Capitol, a beautiful building of which the young

state is justly proud. We go directly to the Governor’s suite and find

a delegation of citizens there waiting to consult him. The attendant

smiles on one member of our party and then disappears. We resign

ourselves for a long wait, but immediately the messenger returns.

“The Governor will see you, Brother Van,” he says. We then have the

privilege of listening to a conference between the pioneer missionary

and modern Montana’s chief man of affairs.



It is near Helena that Last Chance Gulch is situated and the city still

presents the problems of a mining center. In the old days the miners

came without families. They lived the hard, rough life of the pioneers.

Many were only adventurers. They gambled, and even killed for the lure

of gold. Yet it was they who found and developed the mines which have

furnished so large a share of Montana’s wealth――and that of the nation.



Not only gold, but silver, copper, lead, coal, and iron are found.

Especially rich are the fields of copper, and since 1892, Montana has

been the leading state in the production of this metal. Great smelting

and refining plants costing millions of dollars have been established

around which thriving cities have quickly grown. In the maze of

stacks, mills, ore-dumps, tracks, and surrounding streets filled with

the cottages of the laborers, the visitor who has been to the new

settlements on the plains and to the reservations sees a different

Montana――not that of the rancher and the Indians but that of the

industrial worker.



We have an enthusiastic guide when we travel through the mining regions

with Brother Van. He keeps the spirit of the pioneer. While his work

has led him more among the Indians and the plainsmen, he sees the great

needs that have arisen with the growth of the industrial centers. He

is eager that the Christian forces of America undertake new tasks of

helpfulness for the men who toil underground and in the mills, and for

their families.



  Illustration:   Copyright, Brown Brothers.



                  A COPPER MINE AT BUTTE



                  A new America must be won in the restless, throbbing

                  centers of industrial life.



It is in Butte that we find the heart of the great copper region of

Montana. From the hill north of the city, ore to the value of a million

and a half dollars has been taken. When Brother Van made his first

visit there he found but fifty residents. Not only is it now a busy

city of forty thousand inhabitants, but the character of the community

has entirely changed. The settlers of that period were of American

birth and parentage. To-day the great majority of the miners are from

distant countries. The pioneers of the days of Brother Van’s young

manhood lived the hearty open life of the wind-swept plains; the

newcomers from Europe must toil in the dark mine shafts or amid the

dust and roar of the mills and smelters.



Coming as these workers do for the most part from southern and

eastern Europe, differing greatly in customs and in language from the

older population, they must be given special guidance, if they are to

find the real America of their dreams. They will attain the kind of

citizenship which will make them able to take a really helpful place in

the life of the country only as we interpret Christian ideals for them.

It was for these ideals of democratic brotherhood that the young men of

America went abroad and for which thousands of them gave their lives.

Is America now to show to those who have come as strangers to us, and

who do such a large share of the hard work of our country, that these

ideals of democratic brotherhood are being put into practise for the

benefit of all?



Brother Van found a frontier region when he stepped ashore from the

river boat at Fort Benton on that July morning in 1872. He threw

himself into the life about him, and his years of service have brought

friendship and hope and courage to lonely men and women and to aspiring

young people all over a great commonwealth. Cowboy, Indian, and miner

have welcomed his help, for, as they put it, he “prayed lucky.” There

is need to-day――there will always be a need――for the same ministry that

Brother Van has been carrying on in his founding of new churches, and

in his friendly visiting in lonely homes, and in his preaching anywhere

and everywhere the word of cheer and of faith that his whole life

taught. And as a part of the same great task to which he has devoted

all his years, Brother Van will tell you that there is need for another

kind of scouting to-day in the land of the shining mountains.



This vast development of modern industry calls for new and varied

kinds of service. The thrill of adventure is there, although it may be

different from that which was found in the early days of the frontier,

and the joy of conquest remains. The winning of a new America is yet to

be achieved in many of those restless, throbbing centers of industrial

life where men have not yet learned how to bring the spirit of Christ

into their daily toil; where home life is narrow and harsh; where

growing boys and girls are shut out from the opportunities for

recreation and for training, that a preparation for healthy, capable

citizenship demands.



As we leave Brother Van looking out over the wide plains of his beloved

Montana and gazing at the great black masses of the mills and mines

with the dismal clusters of miners’ cottages around them, we know what

he is thinking about. It is of the new scouts who will come to occupy

these frontiers of modern industrial and community life for the Master.

And we know that only those who are worthy to be called Great Heart

will be able to carry on in the new age of world democracy the tasks

that have been so well begun in the old days of the opening West.









              Other books for all boys and girls who love

                       tales of heroic adventure



                           PATHFINDER SERIES





  Livingstone the Pathfinder

  By BASIL MATHEWS

      This story of the life of the great missionary explorer is

      told in a thrilling manner. Every one should know the work

      of this well-known hero.

                              Cloth, 60 cents; paper, 40 cents, prepaid



  The Black Bearded Barbarian

  By MARIAN KEITH

      The life story of George Leslie Mackay, of Formosa.

      _American Youth_ says of it: “All workers with boys should

      welcome this little volume. It has camp-fire stuff in it.”

                              Cloth, 60 cents; paper, 40 cents, prepaid



  Uganda’s White Man of Work

  By SOPHIA LYON FAHS

      The story of Alexander Mackay, an engineer, who answered

      Stanley’s call to go to “Darkest Africa.” His adventures and

      the life of the people are vividly told.

                              Cloth, 60 cents; paper, 40 cents, prepaid



  Martin of Mansfield

  By MARGARET R. SEEBACH

      This book tells many interesting things about the great

      reformer, Martin Luther, but chiefly about his family,

      friends, and school days.

                              Cloth, 60 cents; paper, 40 cents, prepaid



  Brother Van

  By STELLA W. BRUMMITT

      The fascinating story of the life of Dr. W. W. Van Orsdel,

      who has had a long and adventurous career as a home

      missionary in Montana.

                              Cloth, 75 cents; paper, 50 cents, prepaid















*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BROTHER VAN ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.