CONTENTS



Preface

Rosamunda

Disappointment

On Strike

Fairy Sight

A Fairy Necklace

Paying a Call

Before Breakfast

Goblins

The Fairy’s Bedtime

Poppies

A Queer Butterfly

Lovely Frocks

The Jolly Wind

The Witch’s Balloons

Fairy Music

The Little Folk on the Hill

The Moon at Tea-Time

April

The Silent Pool

This Afternoon

The “Feeling”

The Naughty Gnome

Six o’clock

The Imp’s Mistake

Put to Bed

The Merry Breeze

An Accident

A Happy Ending









PREFACE





The children of nowadays are different in

many of their likes and dislikes, from the

children of ten years ago. This change of

attitude is noticeable as much in the world of

children’s poetry as it is in other things.



In my experience of teaching I have found

the children delight in two distinct types of

verses. These are the humorous type and the

imaginative poetical type--but the humour

must be from the child’s point of view and not

from the “grown-up’s”--a very different

thing. And the imagination in the second

type of poem must be clear and whimsical,

otherwise the appeal fails and the child does

not respond.



As I found a lack of suitable poems of the

types I wanted, I began to write them myself

for the children under my supervision, taking,

in many cases, the ideas, humorous or whimsical,

of the children themselves, as the theme

of the poems. Finding them to be successful,

I continued, until the suggestion was made to

me that many children, other than those in

my own school, might enjoy hearing and

learning the poems. Accordingly this collection

of verses is put forward in the hope that

it will be a source of sincere enjoyment to the

little people of the world.





ENID BLYTON.









ROSAMUNDA





In the garden very early

Rosamunda’s walking,

And to her surprise she hears

Lots of fairies talking.



She looks around but cannot see

Where they can be hiding;

Not on any butterfly

Nor bee, are they a-riding.



She goes to where the tulips grow

And finds a sight of wonder,

For out pop fairy elves and say,

“Good-morning, Rosamunda!”









DISAPPOINTMENT





Once I found a fairy

In my cup of tea.

She was nearly drowned

And wet as wet could be.



I picked her out and dried her

And asked her if she’d stay;

“Oh, no,” she said, “_I mustn’t_,”

And off she flew away.









ON STRIKE





My dollies are so naughty,

I’m afraid they’ve gone on strike;

They won’t let me undress them,

But just do what they like.



They say they want a penny

To spend on Saturday,

And ’less I let them have it,

They’ll not join in my play.



I can’t let them behave so,

They’ll never grow up right--

But I know they will be sorry

When I don’t kiss them good-night.









FAIRY SIGHT





If you want to see a fairy,

In the middle of the night,

Wrap the blanket round you,

And shut your eyes up tight.

Say “Akral dafarray!”

And open your right eye,

And (if you’ve been a good child)

A fairy flutters by!









A FAIRY NECKLACE





The rain had rained all morning,

And then the sun shone fair,

And all the garden glittered

With raindrops everywhere!



There were raindrops on the grasses,

And raindrops on the trees,

And how they shook and shivered,

Like diamonds, in the breeze!



And oh, I saw a fairy

Come flying right by me;

She shook a score of raindrops,

From off the hazel tree.



She slung them on a spider’s thread,

A necklace made of rain!

She clasped them round her little neck,

And off she flew again!









PAYING A CALL





I put on my hat with the band of blue,

And my frock with the frilly lace,

I took my sunshade, and held it up,

To keep the sun off my face.



I thought I’d go calling like Mother does,

And have pretty cakes for tea,

And sit on the edge of a chair and talk

With a tea-cup on my knee.



I walked all along the sunny road,

Till I came to Mrs. Leroy’s.

I climbed the steps, and I rang the bell--

It made such a jangley noise.



And then I suddenly felt afraid,

And couldn’t think what I would say

When they opened the door--so I jumped

the steps,

And I ran back home all the way.



Nurse saw me coining in my best frock,

And oh, how she scolded me!

And that’s why I’m wearing an overall now,

And not having jam for tea.









BEFORE BREAKFAST





I go round the garden early, when the grass is

bright with dew,

And I have to put goloshes on my feet.

I’ll tell you all I do there, right away from

people’s view,

When the world is half-awake and very

sweet.



I shake the lady hollyhocks to make the bees

fly out,

And I see how much they’ve grown since

yesterday.

I pop the fattest fuchsia buds, if gardener’s

not about,

And I blow the dandelion clocks away.



I smell the honeysuckle and the lavender as

well,

I take the rose-leaves fallen down beyond;

They’re pink and white and beautiful, just like

a fairy shell,

And I save them up for sailing on the pond.



I stand upon the mossy wall, and smell the

new mown hay,

And I feel the wind that blows the clouds

along;

I think there never, _never_ could be such a

lovely day--

And then, I hear that horrid breakfast gong!









GOBLINS





When I am cross as I can be, and nothing’s

ever right,

Then Mummy says there’s naughty goblins,

hiding out of sight,

Who try to make me do what’s wrong, and try

to make me bad,

They like me to forget things, and make other

people sad.



I’ve never found them anywhere, I don’t know

where to look,

I’ve only seen them in the pages of my

picture-book,

But oh, I’m _sure_ they’re all about in

everybody’s house,

Little creepy-crawley things, as quiet as a

mouse.



When cook forgets to put the sugar in the

Sunday cake,

And gardener breaks the barrow-wheel, and

loses Daddie’s rake,

And Nurse is very cross indeed, and won’t let

me go out,

I always know those nasty little goblins are

about.



I play next-door with Peter, and there’s

goblins even there,

Altho’ it’s such a lovely house, I can’t think

how they dare,

But often Peter’s Daddie is as grumpy as can

be,

All over nothing, so the goblins must be there,

you see.



Whenever things go very wrong, I hide myself

away,

To try and see those goblins, and I’m sure I

shall some day.

And if they bother you at all, you try and

catch them, too,

And _will_ you save them up for me to look at,

if you do?









THE FAIRY’S BEDTIME





Just before they go to bed,

The fairy babes are told

To sit upon their toadstools, and

To be as good as gold.



So down they sit, all in a ring,

It’s supper-time, they know,

For look, their little acorn cups

Are standing in a row.



A fairy fills the little cups,

With dew and honey sweet

And gives one to each little babe

With something nice to eat.



Then off into the trees they fly

And curl themselves up tight

Inside a leaf that’s soft and warm,

And there they sleep all night.









POPPIES





Up the lane behind our house

A little hill you climb,

And at the top on either side

There is in Summer time--

A cornfield waving in the wind,

Where poppies shake their head

And peep at you between the corn,

A glowing dancing red--

I’ll tell you what I did one day

When nurse was cross with me,

And pulled my hair back in a plait,

As tight as tight could be--

I crept up to the swaying corn

And in the poppies there

I sat down by myself, and then

I undid all my hair!

I picked some gleaming poppies red,

The biggest I could find,

I wound them tightly in my curls,

And some hung down behind.

I walked about so very grand

Till it began to rain,

When one by one the poppies fell,

And I went home again.









A QUEER BUTTERFLY





I caught a lovely butterfly,

In Marianna’s net.

It was the sweetest blue and gold,

The prettiest I’d seen yet.



But Marianna came and said

The butterfly should be

Not mine, but _hers_, because the net

Belonged to her, not me.



We quarrelled hard, and didn’t stop,

Until my frock was torn,

And then she pointed down to where

The net lay, on the lawn.



The butterfly was creeping out

And spread its wings of blue,

And then _stood up_, just fancy that!

You’d hardly think it true!



We saw then what it really was,

A fairy, come to play,

And all because we quarrelled so,

She fluttered right away.









LOVELY FROCKS





In my Mummy’s wardrobe, there are lots of

lovely frocks,

I know because I’ve seen them hanging

there;

There’s purple, and there’s orange, and a frilly

one of blue,

And a yellow that is shiny like her hair.



The satin frocks make Mummy look just like a

fairy Queen--

But she can’t cuddle me at all in those--

And when she wears a silken frock, it rustles

like the trees--

But I can’t kiss her ’cos I spoils the bows.



And tho’ I love her pretty dresses, ’cos she

looks so grand,

What I like really best of all to see,

Is when she’s in the garden, wearing _just_ an

overall--

And comes to romp and play about with me.







THE JOLLY WIND





“Hurrah!” says the wind, as he sweeps along,

“Three cheers for the sun to-day,

Just look at him shining away in the sky!

Do come along, children, and play!



I’ll fly your kites on the top of the hill,

And I’ll spin the old weather-cock round!

I’ll send your boats sailing away down the

stream,

Till bump! they have all come aground!



Come along while I turn the old windmill about,

And hear how it groans and it creaks;

Just see how I tweak off your bonnets and caps,

And hear all the laughter and shrieks!



I’ll make you run faster than ever before,

I’ll spin you around and about!

Oh, hurry up, children, and come out of school,

Hurrah!” says the wind, with a shout!









THE WITCH’S BALLOONS





Opposite the nursery sat a woman old and

brown,

I should think she was the very oldest person

in the town,

She sold balloons to children as they passed

her corner there,

She was very cross and horrid and she had a

nasty stare.



I looked at her one morning, on a very

windy day,

And she saw me and she stared at me in such

a nasty way,

I felt afraid, and certain sure that she must be

a witch,

And keep all sorts of stolen treasures hidden

in a ditch.



And as I looked at her, and she was staring up

at me,

I saw a fairy flying low from out the chestnut

tree,

She held a little knife, and oh, she cut the

strings right through,

That held the big balloons together, then away

she flew!



And off went all the purple ones and off went

all the pink,

A-flying in the air as high as ever you could

think,

Around the chimney pots, and right away up

in the sky,

Until they bumped into the clouds, a-sailing

slowly by.



And then I looked to see what that old woman

had to say,

But there wasn’t any sign of her, she’d

vanished right away,

She _must_ have been a wicked witch, and by

the fairies slain,

For tho’ I’ve looked each morning, she has

_never_ come again.









FAIRY MUSIC





I found a little fairy flute

Beneath a harebell blue;

I sat me down upon the moss

And blew a note or two.



And as I blew the rabbits came

Around me in the sun,

And little mice and velvet moles

Came creeping, one by one.



A swallow perched upon my head,

A robin on my thumb,

The thrushes sang in tune with me,

The bees began to hum.



I loved to see them all around

And wished they’d always stay,

When down a little fairy flew

And _snatched_ my flute away!



And then the swallow fluttered off,

And gone were all the bees,

The rabbits ran, and I was left

Alone among the trees!









THE LITTLE FOLK ON THE HILL





Right on the top of the Feraling Hill

There’s a queer little seat made of stone,

And sometimes I climb up the heathery slope.

And sit in the wind all alone.



Nobody knows why the little seat’s there,

(It’s almost too tiny for me)

But I love to squeeze into it on a clear day,

And look over the hills to the sea.



Sometimes I’ve sat there and heard funny

sounds

And voices, and tho’ I’ve kept still,

I’ve only seen one of the queer Little Folk

That I _know_ live inside of the hill.



For once I came quietly up to the stone--

And on it sat one of the Folk!

He was looking across all the hills to the sea,

But he vanished away when I spoke.



And that’s how _I_ know why the little seat’s

there,

And why it’s small even for me;

The Folk put it there in the wind, for _they love_

To look over the hills to the sea.









THE MOON AT TEA-TIME





I was playing in the meadow, where there’s

not a single tree,

I was throwing bits of sorrel at a fat old

bumble-bee,

And then--I just looked up to see the clouds

go sailing by--

And oh, I saw the _moon_, in daytime! and I

_can’t_ think why!



Such funny things keep happ’ning, and

they’ve happened all to-day,

First, I found a weeny mouse, all cuddled in

the hay,

Then at home we’ve got a baby, from _I_ don’t

know where!

And now I find the moon at _tea-time_, sitting in

the air!



I’m sure it’s wrong, because the Bible says it’s

meant for night,

And look, it hides behind the clouds--it knows

it isn’t right.

Now there it comes! Oh, silly moon, you make

the sun look fine,

’Cos bumping up against the clouds has

rubbed off all _your_ shine!









APRIL





Oh, April brings the cuckoo-bird, and April

brings the rain,

April hangs a hundred sunny raindrops in the

lane,

She can wash the sky with woolly clouds of

purest white,

And gaily dress it up in rainbows, curving out

of sight.



Oh, April hangs the chestnut trees with spires

of white and pink,

And kisses all the primroses along the river’s

brink,

She peeps into the tiny nests where eggs are

hidden well,

And searches out the purple violets growing in

the dell.



Oh, April swings the apple blossom, sweet

against the sky

And chases all the bob-tail rabbits scuttling

gaily by,

She dances with the meadow cowslips, drooping

heads of gold,

Oh, April is the sweetest month that any year

can hold!









THE SILENT POOL





Away in the wood where it’s dark,

There’s a pool that is purplish green,

With whispering rushes around,

That murmur of things they have seen.



I once lay and listened all night,

And heard why the pool lies alone;

Not even a fairy goes near

And only the sad rushes moan.



I heard how there once lived a witch,

Who weaved wicked spells night and day,

And used the pool’s purplish deeps

For things which I wouldn’t dare say.



Then one day she vanished and went,

And never was seen any more,

But silent and still lay the pool,

And darker than ever before.



No fairy knows what the pool holds,

And none guesses what secrets lie

Hid safely away in its deeps,

But shuddering, all pass it by.



Take heed when you go through the wood,

And pass where the pool lies alone--

Not even a fairy goes near,

And only the sad rushes moan!









THIS AFTERNOON





This afternoon is very hot,

And all the sky is blue,

The busy bees are humming loud,

They have a lot to do.



I want to go out in the fields

Where all the daisies grow,

And watch the little breezes bend

The grasses to and fro.

I want to watch the butterflies,

And hear the cuckoo call,

I’d cuckoo back to see if he

Would answer me at all.



The buttercups are shaking gold

Upon the dry brown earth,

And shiny beetles race along

The ground, for all they’re worth.

I want to lie down on the grass

And look up at the sky,

It looks so queer and far away

And wonderfully high.



It’s such a lovely afternoon,

With lovely things to see;

Oh, _why_ must I in my best frock

Be taken out to tea?









THE “FEELING”





Inside of me there’s a Feeling lives,

That wakes when I see a rose,

Or the snow, or sunshine, or daisy fields;

It wakes for a time--and then goes.



When I suddenly see the rainbow shine

Right over the sky so wide,

And the sunshine gleams thro’ the pouring rain,

I get that “Feeling” inside.



When I get out of bed on a winter’s morn,

And look thro’ my window pane,

And find the snow on the trees and fields,

I get the Feeling again.



When a great big wave comes sweeping up

On a stormy and windy tide,

And crashes against the rocks in spray,

I get the Feeling inside.



I once told Nannie just how I felt,

But I’m not going to tell her again.

_She_ didn’t know at all what I meant,

She called my Feeling a _pain!_









THE NAUGHTY GNOME





A little gnome in Fairyland

Once found a pot of glue,

And he of course began to think

What mischief he could do!



He smeared the toadstools, one and all,

Whereon the fairies sat,

And oh, how cross they were to find

A naughty trick like that!



He dropped some glue upon the grass,

To catch the fairies’ feet,

When there came by the Fairy King

And Queen with all their suite.



The King walked straight upon the glue

And found he couldn’t stir!

Then came the frightened gnome, and cried,

“Oh, please have mercy, Sir!



I didn’t mean to catch _your_ feet

Within my sticky glue,

But please forgive me and I’ll find

Some better thing to do!”



“I’ll pardon you,” the King replied,

“But harken what I say,

Go, use your glue on _chestnut_ buds,

To keep the frost away.”



So in the chestnuts every spring

The gnome works all day long,

And if you touch a bud, you’ll find

His glue is _very_ strong!









SIX O’CLOCK





We always wake at six o’clock,

When Nurse is still asleep;

She’s hidden under all the clothes,

Her breathes are loud and deep.



We mustn’t talk till seven strikes,

And so we just turn round

And hear the milk-carts going by,

They have a tinny sound.



I look up at the ceiling, and

I count the cracks I see,

And all the flies upon the wall;

Once there were _twenty-three!_



Teddie pulls out feathers from

The eiderdown, and blows

With all his might, to make them drop

On top of Nurse’s nose.



I breathe on all the brassy nobs

That feel so very cold;

They go quite dull till Teddie rubs,

And makes them shine like gold.



And now I’ve told you all these things,

If you wake early, too,

And mustn’t talk till seven strikes,

_You’ll_ know just what to do.









THE IMP’S MISTAKE





As Anna slept beside the fire

An imp as black as soot

Came down the chimney in a bound,

And landed by her foot!



He looked at her black shining shoe,

A frown came on his face,

He thought it was a piece of coal

A-tumbled from its place!



And so he started tugging hard

To put it back again

Upon the fire, when Anna woke

And gave a cry of pain!



“You naughty little imp,” she cried,

“Just leave my foot alone!”

And in a trice the imp had jumped

And up the chimney flown!



So when you’re sitting by the fire,

It’s better, on the whole,

To keep awake, in case that imp

Should think _your_ shoes are coal!









PUT TO BED





The sun is shining hot and bright,

The gardener’s mowing grass,

He’s doing it with all his might,

I hear his footsteps pass.



Nurse put me here in bed alone

Because I’ve not been good;

I think her heart is hard as stone--

I didn’t think she would.



I haven’t been so very bad,

I’ll tell you what I’ve done.

I took a pencil that I had,

A lovely orange one.



I drew a splendid pattern round

The dining room and hall,

And trees that grew up from the ground,

Right up the nursery wall.



I’d started on a giant’s head,

I know just how they’re made,

When Nurse came in, so cross and red,

It made me feel afraid.



I never had behaved, she said,

So wickedly before;

She made me go upstairs to bed,

And then she banged the door.



She took my toys and books and ball,

And all the bricks I’d built;

There’s nothing here that’s nice at all,

’Cept Grannie’s patchwork quilt!









THE MERRY BREEZE





Round about the orchard went the merry

little breeze,

Playing with the butterflies and teasing all

the bees,

Sending showers of apple-blossom down upon

the ground,

And spilling half the dew-drops from the

grasses all around.



He ruffled up the feathers of the ducks a-sailing

by,

And hustled all the lazy clods that floated in

the sky,

He swung the beeches to and fro, then darted

off again

To dry the shiny puddles scattered down along

the lane.



The chimney smoke he twisted in the queerest

kind of way,

Until at last the little breeze was weary of his

play;

He crept back to the orchard, where the

daffodillies peep,

And there it was I found him lying, curled up

fast asleep!









AN ACCIDENT





We’ve a little summer house

With a pointed top,

And on it, watching us at play,

The fairies often stop.



But now we’ve done a dreadful thing,

And frightened them away,

Because, by accident, our ball

Struck two of them to-day.



It bounced upon the summer house,

And hurt the fairies there;

They flew away with cries of pain,

And said it wasn’t fair.



Each day we watch our summer house

And watch the pointed top.

But now, tho’ fairies fly around,

They _never_ come to stop.









A HAPPY ENDING





I found a ship upon the sea,

All ready waiting there for me,

So in I jumped and off we sped,

To gleaming waters far ahead.



But soon a wind came moaning by

And clouds filled all the sunny sky,

The sea was speckled with the rain,

And my ship rolled and rolled again.



The waves crashed grandly on the deck.

The sails dripped rain-drops down my neck,

Then straight ahead, I spied a rock,

And braced myself to meet the shock--



Crash! we struck, and there we stayed,

While rain and storm around us played;

The ship at once began to fill,

And down and down we sank--until



I yelled in fear and clutched the side,

Half-drowning in the racing tide.

And just as mast and rigging broke,

I found myself in bed--and WOKE!







PRINTED BY GARDEN CITY PRESS,

LETCH WORTH, ENGLAND.









*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CHILD WHISPERS ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.