with darkness, silence, and solitude. I found it in the glare of

midafternoon, in the clangor of a metropolis, and in the teeming midst

of a shabby and commonplace rooming-house with a prosaic landlady

and two stalwart men by my side. In the spring of 1923 I had secured

some dreary and unprofitable magazine work in the city of New York;

and being unable to pay any substantial rent, began drifting from one

cheap boarding establishment to another in search of a room which might

combine the qualities of decent cleanliness, endurable furnishings,

and very reasonable price. It soon developed that I had only a choice

between different evils, but after a time I came upon a house in West

Fourteenth Street which disgusted me much less than the others I had

sampled.



The place was a four-story mansion of brownstone, dating apparently

from the late forties, and fitted with woodwork and marble whose

stained and sullied splendor argued a descent from high levels of

tasteful opulence. In the rooms, large and lofty, and decorated with

impossible paper and ridiculously ornate stucco cornices, there

lingered a depressing mustiness and hint of obscure cookery; but the

floors were clean, the linen tolerably regular, and the hot water not

too often cold or turned off; so that I came to regard it as at least

a bearable place to hibernate until one might really live again. The

landlady, a slatternly, almost bearded Spanish woman named Herrero,

did not annoy me with gossip or with criticisms of the late-burning

electric light in my third floor front hall room; and my fellow-lodgers

were as quiet and uncommunicative as one might desire, being mostly

Spaniards a little above the coarsest and crudest grade. Only the din

of street-cars in the thoroughfare below proved a serious annoyance.



I had been there about three weeks when the first odd incident

occurred. One evening at about eight I heard a spattering on the floor

and became suddenly aware that I had been smelling the pungent odor of

ammonia for some time. Looking about, I saw that the ceiling was wet

and dripping; the soaking apparently proceeding from a corner on the

side toward the street. Anxious to stop the matter at its source, I

hastened to the basement to tell the landlady, and was assured by her

that the trouble would quickly be set right.



"Doctair Muñoz," she cried as she rushed upstairs ahead of me, "he have

speel hees chemicals. He ees too seeck for doctair heemself--seecker

and seecker all the time--but he weel not have no othair for help. He

ees vairy queer in hees seeckness--all day he take funnee-smelling

baths, and he cannot get excite or warm. All hees own housework he

do--hees leetle room are full of bottles and machines and he do not

work as doctair. But he was great once--my fathair in Barcelona have

hear of heem--and only joost now he feex a arm of the plumber that get

hurt of sudden. He nevair go out, only on roof, and my boy Esteban he

breeng heem hees food and laundry and mediceens and chemicals. My God,

the sal-ammoniac that man use for to keep heem cool!"



Mrs. Herrero disappeared up the staircase to the fourth floor, and I

returned to my room. The ammonia ceased to drip, and as I cleaned up

what had spilled and opened the window for air, I heard the landlady's

heavy footsteps above me. Doctor Muñoz I had never heard, save for

certain sounds as of some gasoline-driven mechanism; since his step was

soft and gentle. I wondered for a moment what the strange affliction

of this man might be, and whether his obstinate refusal of outside

aid were not the result of a rather baseless eccentricity. There is,

I reflected tritely, an infinite deal of pathos in the state of an

eminent person who has come down in the world.



       *       *       *       *       *



I might never have known Doctor Muñoz had it not been for the heart

attack that suddenly seized me one forenoon as I sat writing in my

room. Physicians had told me of the danger of those spells, and I knew

there was no time to be lost; so, remembering what the landlady had

said about the invalid's help of the injured workman, I dragged myself

upstairs and knocked feebly at the door above mine.



My knock was answered in good English by a curious voice some distance

to the right, asking my name and business; and these things being

stated, there came an opening of the door next to the one I had sought.



A rush of cool air greeted me; and though the day was one of the

hottest of late June, I shivered as I crossed the threshold into a

large apartment whose rich and tasteful decoration surprized me in

this nest of squalor and seediness. A folding couch now filled its

diurnal rôle of sofa, and the mahogany furniture, sumptuous hangings,

old paintings, and mellow bookshelves all bespoke a gentleman's study

rather than a boarding-house bedroom. I now saw that the hall room

above mine--the "leetle room" of bottles and machines which Mrs.

Herrero had mentioned--was merely the laboratory of the doctor; and

that his main living-quarters lay in the spacious adjoining room whose

convenient alcoves and large contiguous bathroom permitted him to hide

all dressers and obtrusively utilitarian devices. Doctor Muñoz, most

certainly, was a man of birth, cultivation, and discrimination.



The figure before me was short but exquisitely proportioned, and clad

in somewhat formal dress of perfect fit and cut. A high-bred face

of masterful though not arrogant expression was adorned by a short

iron-gray full beard, and an old-fashioned pince-nez shielded the full,

dark eyes and surmounted an aquiline nose which gave a Moorish touch to

a physiognomy otherwise dominantly Celt-Iberian. Thick, well-trimmed

hair that argued the punctual calls of a barber was parted gracefully

above a high forehead; and the whole picture was one of striking

intelligence and superior blood and breeding.



Nevertheless, as I saw Doctor Muñoz in that blast of cool air, I felt

a repugnance which nothing in his aspect could justify. Only his

lividly inclined complexion and coldness of touch could have afforded

a physical basis for this feeling, and even these things should have

been excusable considering the man's known invalidism. It might, too,

have been the singular cold that alienated me; for such chilliness was

abnormal on so hot a day, and the abnormal always excites aversion,

distrust, and fear.



But repugnance was soon forgotten in admiration, for the strange

physician's extreme skill at once became manifest despite the

ice-coldness and shakiness of his bloodless-looking hands. He clearly

understood my needs at a glance, and ministered to them with a master's

deftness; the while reassuring me in a finely modulated though oddly

hollow and timbreless voice that he was the bitterest of sworn

enemies to death, and had sunk his fortune and lost all his friends

in a lifetime of bizarre experiment devoted to its bafflement and

extirpation. Something of the benevolent fanatic seemed to reside in

him, and he rambled on almost garrulously as he sounded my chest and

mixed a suitable draft of drugs fetched from the smaller laboratory

room. Evidently he found the society of a well-born man a rare novelty

in this dingy environment, and was moved to unaccustomed speech as

memories of better days surged over him.



His voice, if queer, was at least soothing; and I could not even

perceive that he breathed as the fluent sentences rolled urbanely

out. He sought to distract my mind from my own seizure by speaking of

his theories and experiments; and I remember his tactfully consoling

me about my weak heart by insisting that will and consciousness are

stronger than organic life itself, so that if a bodily frame be

but originally healthy and carefully preserved, it may through a

scientific enhancement of these qualities retain a kind of nervous

animation despite the most serious impairments, defects, or even

absences in the battery of specific organs. He might, he half-jestingly

said, some day teach me to live--or at least to possess some kind

of conscious existence--without any heart at all! For his part, he

was afflicted with a complication of maladies requiring a very exact

regimen which included constant cold. Any marked rise in temperature

might, if prolonged, affect him fatally; and the frigidity of his

habitation--some fifty-five or fifty-six degrees Fahrenheit--was

maintained by an absorption system of ammonia cooling, the gasoline

engine whose pumps I had often heard in my room below.



Relieved of my seizure in a marvelously short while, I left the shivery

place a disciple and devotee of the gifted recluse. After that I paid

him frequent overcoated calls, listening while he told of secret

researches and almost ghastly results, and trembling a bit when I

examined the unconventional and astonishingly ancient volumes on his

shelves. I was eventually, I may add, almost cured of my disease for

all time by his skilful ministrations. It seems that he did not scorn

the incantations of the mediævalists, since he believed these cryptic

formulæ to contain rare psychological stimuli which might conceivably

have singular effects on the substance of a nervous system from which

organic pulsations had fled. I was touched by his account of the aged

Doctor Torres of Valencia, who had shared his earlier experiments

and nursed him through the great illness of eighteen years before,

whence his present disorders proceeded. No sooner had the venerable

practitioner saved his colleague than he himself succumbed to the

grim enemy he had fought. Perhaps the strain had been too great; for

Doctor Muñoz made it whisperingly clear--though not in detail--that the

methods of healing had been most extraordinary, involving scenes and

processes not welcomed by elderly and conservative Galens.



       *       *       *       *       *



As the weeks passed, I observed with regret that my new friend

was indeed slowly but unmistakably losing ground physically, as

Mrs. Herrero had suggested. The livid aspect of his countenance

was intensified, his voice became more hollow and indistinct, his

muscular motions were less perfectly coördinated, and his mind and

will displayed less resilience and initiative. Of this sad change

he seemed by no means unaware, and little by little his expression

and conversation both took on a gruesome irony which restored in me

something of the subtle repulsion I had originally felt.



He developed strange caprices, acquiring a fondness for exotic

spices and Egyptian incense until his room smelled like the vault

of a sepulchered Pharaoh in the Valley of Kings. At the same time,

his demands for cold air increased, and with my aid he amplified the

ammonia piping of his room and modified the pumps and feed of his

refrigerating machine until he could keep the temperature as low as

thirty-four or forty degrees, and finally even twenty-eight degrees;

the bathroom and laboratory, of course, being less chilled, in order

that water might not freeze, and that chemical processes might not

be impeded. The tenant adjoining him complained of the icy air from

around the connecting door; so I helped him fit heavy hangings to

obviate the difficulty. A kind of growing horror, of outré and morbid

cast, seemed to possess him. He talked of death incessantly, but

laughed hollowly when such things as burial or funeral arrangements

were gently suggested.



All in all, he became a disconcerting and even gruesome companion; yet

in my gratitude for his healing, I could not well abandon him to the

strangers around him, and was careful to dust his room and attend to

his needs each day, muffled in a heavy ulster which I bought especially

for the purpose. I likewise did much of his shopping, and gasped in

bafflement at some of the chemicals he ordered from druggists and

laboratory supply houses.



An increasing and unexplained atmosphere of panic seemed to rise around

his apartment. The whole house, as I have said, had a musty odor;

but the smell in his room was worse, in spite of all the spices and

incense, and the pungent chemicals of the now incessant baths which he

insisted on taking unaided. I perceived that it must be connected with

his ailment, and shuddered when I reflected on what that ailment might

be. Mrs. Herrero crossed herself when she looked at him, and gave him

up unreservedly to me; not even letting her son Esteban continue to

run errands for him. When I suggested other physicians, the sufferer

would fly into as much of a rage as he seemed to dare to entertain.

He evidently feared the physical effect of violent emotion, yet his

will and driving force waxed rather than waned, and he refused to be

confined to his bed. The lassitude of his earlier ill days gave place

to a return of his fiery purpose, so that he seemed about to hurl

defiance at the death-demon even as that ancient enemy seized him. The

pretense of eating, always curiously like a formality with him, he

virtually abandoned; and mental power alone appeared to keep him from

total collapse.



He acquired a habit of writing long documents of some sort, which he

carefully sealed and filed with injunctions that I transmit them after

his death to certain persons whom he named--for the most part lettered

East Indians, but including also a once celebrated French physician

now generally thought dead, and about whom the most inconceivable

things had been whispered. As it happened, I burned all these papers

undelivered and unopened. His aspect and voice became utterly

frightful, and his presence almost unbearable. One September day an

unexpected glimpse of him induced an epileptic fit in a man who had

come to repair his electric desk lamp; a fit for which he prescribed

effectively while keeping himself well out of sight. That man, oddly

enough, had been through the terrors of the great war without having

incurred any fright so thorough.



       *       *       *       *       *



Then, in the middle of October, the horror of horrors came with

stupefying suddenness. One night about eleven the pump of the

refrigerating machine broke down, so that within three hours the

process of ammonia cooling became impossible. Doctor Muñoz summoned me

by thumping on the floor, and I worked desperately to repair the injury

while my host cursed in a tone whose lifeless, rattling hollowness

surpassed description. My amateur efforts, however, proved of no use;

and when I had brought in a mechanic from a neighboring all-night

garage we learned that nothing could be done until morning, when a

new piston would have to be obtained. The moribund hermit's rage and

fear, swelling to grotesque proportions, seemed likely to shatter what

remained of his failing physique; and once a spasm caused him to clap

his hands to his eyes and rush into the bathroom. He groped his way

out with face tightly bandaged, and I never saw his eyes again.



[Illustration: "He groped his way out with face tightly bandaged, and I

never saw his eyes again."]



The frigidity of the apartment was now sensibly diminishing, and

at about five in the morning, the doctor retired to the bathroom,

commanding me to keep him supplied with all the ice I could obtain

at all-night drugstores and cafeterias. As I would return from my

sometimes discouraging trips and lay my spoils before the closed

bathroom door, I could hear a restless splashing within, and a thick

voice croaking out the order for "More--more!" At length a warm day

broke, and the shops opened one by one. I asked Esteban either to help

with the ice-fetching while I obtained the pump piston, or to order the

piston while I continued with the ice; but, instructed by his mother,

he absolutely refused.



Finally I hired a seedy-looking loafer whom I encountered on the corner

of Eighth Avenue to keep the patient supplied with ice from a little

shop where I introduced him, and applied myself diligently to the task

of finding a pump piston and engaging workmen competent to install it.

The task seemed interminable, and I raged almost as violently as the

hermit when I saw the hours slipping by in a breathless, foodless round

of vain telephoning, and a hectic quest from place to place, hither and

thither by subway and surface car.



About noon I encountered a suitable supply house far downtown, and at

approximately one-thirty that afternoon arrived at my boarding-place

with the necessary paraphernalia and two sturdy and intelligent

mechanics. I had done all I could, and hoped I was in time.



Black terror, however, had preceded me. The house was in utter turmoil,

and above the chatter of awed voices I heard a man praying in a deep

basso. Fiendish things were in the air, and lodgers told over the

beads of their rosaries as they caught the odor from beneath the

doctor's closed door. The lounger I had hired, it seems, had fled

screaming and mad-eyed not long after his second delivery of ice:

perhaps as a result of excessive curiosity. He could not, of course,

have locked the door behind him; yet it was now fastened, presumably

from the inside. There was no sound within save a nameless sort of

slow, thick dripping.



Briefly consulting with Mrs. Herrero and the workmen despite a fear

that gnawed my inmost soul, I advised the breaking down of the door;

but the landlady found a way to turn the key from the outside with some

wire device. We had previously opened the doors of all the other rooms

on that hall, and flung all the windows to the very top. Now, noses

protected by handkerchiefs, we tremblingly invaded the accursed south

room, which blazed with the warm sun of early afternoon.



A kind of dark, slimy trail led from the open bathroom door to the

hall door, and thence to the desk, where a terrible little pool had

accumulated. Something was scrawled there in a pencil in an awful,

blind hand on a piece of paper hideously smeared as though by the very

claws that traced the hurried last words. Then the trail led to the

couch and ended unutterably.



What was, or had been, on the couch I cannot and dare not say here. But

this is what I shiveringly puzzled out on the stickily smeared paper

before I drew a match and burned it to a crisp; what I puzzled out

in terror as the landlady and two mechanics rushed frantically from

that hellish place to babble their incoherent stories at the nearest

police station. The nauseous words seemed well-nigh incredible in that

yellow sunlight, with the clatter of cars and motor trucks ascending

clamorously from crowded Fourteenth Street, yet I confess that I

believed them then. Whether I believe them now I honestly do not know.

There are things about which it is better not to speculate, and all

that I can say is that I hate the smell of ammonia, and grow faint at a

draft of unusually cool air.



"The end," ran that noisome scrawl, "is here. No more ice--the man

looked and ran away. Warmer every minute, and the tissues can't last.

I fancy you know--what I said about the will and the nerves and the

preserved body after the organs ceased to work. It was good theory, but

couldn't keep up indefinitely. There was a gradual deterioration I had

not foreseen. Doctor Torres knew, but the shock killed him. He couldn't

stand what he had to do; he had to get me in a strange, dark place,

when he minded my letter and nursed me back. And the organs never would

work again. It had to be done my way--artificial preservation--_for you

see I died that time eighteen years ago_."











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COOL AIR ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.