possession of the Meaher Brothers, Tim, Lim and Burns; these men had

a mill and shipyard at the mouth of the creek and built vessels for

blockade running, river trade and filibustering expeditions.



The three Meaher brothers were natives of Maine. They had associated

with them in business one Captain Foster, born of English parentage

in Nova Scotia. He was the actual owner of the _Clotilde_. She was

selected because of her fleetness to make the voyage for a cargo of

slaves.



Once on the African Coast, there was little trouble in procuring a

cargo of slaves; for it had long been a part of the trader’s policy to

instigate the tribes against each other and in this manner keep the

markets stocked. News of the trade was often published in the papers.

An excerpt from _The Mobile Register_ of Nov. 9, 1858, said: “From the

West Coast of Africa we have advice dated Sept. 21st. The quarreling

of the tribes on Sierra Leone River rendered the aspect of things very

unsatisfactory. The King of Dahomey was driving a brisk trade in slaves

at from fifty to sixty dollars apiece at Whydah. Immense numbers of

Negroes were collected along the Coast for export.” Foster, with a

crew of Northern men, sailed directly for Whydah.



The slaves who made up the cargo of the _Clotilde_ were captured by

Dahomey’s warriors and women warriors (perhaps Amazons), Cudjo, or more

accurately, Kujjo Lewis says in this manner. In the early part of the

nineteenth century one of the Dahomey kings organized a battalion of

women warriors.



For a long time the King of Dahomey and his tribe had been raiding the

weaker and more peaceful tribes that lay within striking distance of

his empire. They lived by war and slavery. The King of Dahomey’s house

was built of skulls. They made war upon Togo.



Togo was “many days from the water.” About fourteen, Cudjo

estimated.[2] The people of the Togo were a peaceful, agricultural

people, raising hogs, goats, sheep, chickens, and a few cows. They

planted corn, beans and yams. Plenty of bananas and pineapples grow

wild. The most important natural resource was the palm tree. They

produced palm oil, their greatest industry. They made cord for all

purposes by twisting strips of palm leaves. They made cloth from the

fibre, and beer from the nuts. The men and women tilled the fields

alike and held property in common. There was no hunger, no poverty.



Their methods of farming are interesting. A plot of ground is tilled

by the tenant for seven years. By that time the fertility is about

exhausted and they choose another plot. The yams are produced from

the eye of the seed as we do our white potatoes. The vines grow very

long, so they are poled like string beans. The earth is hilled up about

the shoot and the weeds kept away until it gets a start. “Then,” says

Cudjo, “we go way, we come back, push, dig de dirt--great beeg yam like

keg, nail keg. We cut off vine with little piece of yam and cover it

up again. Another beeg yam. Whole family couldn’t eat at one time. For

seven years don’t need no new seed, it keep making yams.”



A sort of melon grows on tall plants and is eaten with salt as one

does cantaloupe, but it grows very much larger. It is without doubt

the melon tree found everywhere in the tropics, probably of the papaya

family. Beer is also made from bananas and is used as commonly as the

“vin rouge” of France.



Foods are roasted and boiled. The roasting and boiling is done over

and among the coals, but the boiling is done over the fire in clay

pots. There is a definite fire place--built in. Three clay pillars or

pot-rests about eighteen inches high are molded of clay and allowed to

dry. The fire is built among these posts and the pot rested on them.



The drinking of milk is unknown to them. They eat almost no

domesticated beef. They eat goat flesh, chicken, hogs, deer, and other

game, as they are great hunters. Elephants are hunted for ivory, but

the flesh is never eaten. This is a staple however with cannibal

tribes. Hogs are prepared by taking brown sage and burning off the

hair, then washing the skin thoroughly. The animal is usually roasted

whole very much as we barbecue. This was probably the origin of the

barbecue in America. The word, however, is derived from a native name

in Guiana.



The houses of these Africans are cylindrical and built of clay. They

are thus weather-tight and fireproof. A circular trench is dug and the

walls built up about two feet high and eighteen inches thick. This is

left to dry. Then they add another two feet and let it dry. This is

kept up until the house is about eight feet high. A series of notches

are made at the top to receive the rafters. The center pole is a tall,

straight palm tree. Slight niches are cut in this to receive the

rafters, one end is laid through the notches at the top of the wall,

and the other fitted into the niches in the center pole and bound with

palm cord. The ends in the notches are bound and cemented with clay.

When this dries it is very strong and durable. Then the roof is laid

with grass. A kind of long leafy grass like wheat stalks is used, the

rafters having been grilled over with young saplings bound with palm

cord. The grass is bound on the lower edges of the roof first and the

next course overlaps this as ordinary shingles are laid to shed water

until the entire roof is covered. A very watertight roof results.



Openings of the house are limited. There are no windows. The door

is made by boring holes in one set of timbers and fitting tongues

or wooden pegs on the transverse pieces. These are fitted carefully

and when driven together interlock like the “dovetailing” in antique

furniture. There are no hinges. The door is set up or moved away as

convenient. The floors are of beaten clay. The house is lighted by a

palm oil lamp. The niches for these lamps are left in the thickness of

the wall.



The apparel is also interesting. The men wear a pair of short trousers

ordinarily, but on special occasions this is supplemented by a cloak.

A large piece of cloth about six feet square is first draped over the

left shoulder. The short end from the back folds smartly over the other

end, thus holding it in place, and giving a very pleasing effect and at

the same time leaving the right arm free. Plenty of jewelry is worn,

earrings of ivory and bracelets of gold and ivory.



The women wear a single garment, also a square of cloth. Nothing is

worn above the waist but ornaments. Bracelets from wrist to elbow and

numerous shell and ivory necklaces--as many as the husband can afford.

Earrings and bracelets of pure gold that tinkled very pleasantly as the

women swung their arms, Cudjo says.



The cloth is always of cotton woven by men. The colors are bought

from men, not quite as white as white men--who go and sell, probably

the Arabs. On a large flat stone are little troughs gouged out of the

rock to hold the different colors and the weaver takes from each when

he chooses. Shoes are made of cowhide but they consist of the merest

sandals. Buffalo hide is also popular.



There was a military organization but they were not a very warlike

nation. All boys over fourteen were of military age. The people of

Cudjo’s native country fought largely in self defense.



The natives are polygamous but the wives never exceed three or four.

There is no jealousy among the wives for another wife merely lightens

the duties of the first. She herself does the match-making for her

successors and holds the most favored position. The wives are always

bought of their parents, but no presents are made to girls before

betrothal. A native is careful not to give anything until he is sure he

has the bird in hand.



“Cudjo he been married for three years for example,” says he. “His wife

says: ‘Cudjo, I am growing old. I am tired--I will bring you another

wife.’ Before speaking thus she has already one in mind--some girl who

attracts her and whom Cudjo has possibly never seen. The wife goes out

and finds the girl--maybe in the public square, maybe in the market

place and she asks: ‘You know Cudjo?’ The girl answers: ‘I have heard

of him.’ The wife says: ‘Cudjo is good. He is kind. I would like you to

be his wife.’ The girl answers: ‘Come with me to my parents.’ They go

together; questions are asked on both sides and if they are satisfied

the parents say: ‘We give our daughter into your care. She is ours no

more. You be good to her.’”



The wife returns with the girl to Cudjo’s house. The wife introduces

the girl to Cudjo, shows her how to look after things as she has done,

then sits down to take her days of rest and ease, and works no more.

Marriages are contracted with surrounding friendly tribes. The bride is

always taken to the home of the groom. A woman belongs to her husband’s

tribe.



The relation of the husband to the wives is that of a protector. He

dares not commit adultery for the punishment is very great. If the wife

is caught in adultery she is returned to her parents and her purchase

price must be returned to the husband. The status of a divorced woman

is a great deal lower than that of the married woman, since for one

thing and only one thing she is divorced. Her former husband however

is not spiteful. Her people refund and he feels satisfied. He has lost

nothing.



There is very little of illegitimacy. When it does occur, the man is

forced to pay her parents dowry, since he has been the cause of their

not getting one from a prospective husband; and the child is brought

up by his people. The girl is disposed of for a smaller consideration,

probably to some much less desirable husband.



The boys are circumcised at seven or eight years and on the fifth

day after circumcision, when the soreness has passed, the boys are

given a feast. This marks the passing of an important stage in their

preparation for life. They march about the village and beat drums all

day.



Drums are made in three shapes. The small tom-tom, the large state

drum, and the long drum covered at both ends. Deer and buffalo hides

are used for covering. These drums are used for religious and festive

purposes.



With respect to birth Cudjo thinks there probably were such ceremonies,

but he has no memory of them. There was no puberty ceremony as in most

tribes. Cudjo would have gone through them if there had been, for he

was past nineteen when he came to America.



These natives are religious. “Alahna” is the great god of all. Women

make sacrifices to him to grant them children if they are barren.

There are other gods whom the natives worshipped. They had a dualistic

belief in spirits. There was a spirit of Good, “Ahla-Ahra.” Spirit

of evil, “Ahla-hady-oleelay.” The priest was called “Elaha.” They

were what we call pagans, nature-worshippers of the wind, the sun,

thunder and lightning. They knelt in fear before these powers with

their arms crossed over their breasts. Cudjo frequently employs this

gesture. Cudjo is now an ardent Christian and is, I believe, hiding

or suppressing what he knows about African religion for fear of being

thought a heathen.



If Cudjo is a good example of his native stock they are a tall,

well-built tribe of people, dark brown but by no means black. They have

a very well-developed forehead and back head and intelligent eyes. The

hair is Negroid but less so than many American Negroes. Cudjo’s feet

are small for his height. Cudjo is keen, intelligent, cheerful. He has

a lively imagination and a fine sense of humor. He has a radiant smile.

At the age of about ninety he still has all of his teeth but three.



Cudjo mentions certain tribal marks. The teeth are cut so that the two

front ones come to a point at the center, the others so as to make a

broad inverted “V” on either side. There is no other mark, but I am

told by old citizens of Mobile that some had two lines between the eyes

and three on the cheek, which led me to conjecture that when Captain

Foster was selecting the Negroes on the African coast he mixed them.

Cudjo later explained that the teeth are the marks of family and of

kinship but that the lines are tribal. They might have all come from

the same general locality and might have spoken the same language.



The people of Cudjo’s tribe were ruled by a king called “Adbaku” or

“Ibaku.” The country was rather democratic. Any one might see the king.

He regularly presided over the court of justice. One of the severest

tribal laws was against theft. Such a crime was almost unknown. Houses

were never locked. Everyone worked and had plenty.



“Suppose,” says Cudjo, “I leave my purse. You know the square in

Mobile? I talk, I go way and leave my purse on de ground. Every body

see it. They say: ‘Cudjo forget his purse.’ Nobody steal it. When I get

to de Creek (Three Mile Creek) I feel I see I left it on de square. I

say its too far to turn back. Today I have no time. I get it tomorrow.

Tomorrow I am too busy again, but it stay there. Nobody move it because

it belongs to Cudjo. Could I do that in America?”



Murder in Cudjo’s tribe is always punished by death. Just the way the

victim was put to death so the murderer would be executed. All are

equal before the law. Rank and wealth count for nothing. There is a

regular building set aside for the king to hear cases; but, as a rule,

court is held in the public square.



While living in their peaceful state there came serious trouble from

without. The arrogant King of Dahomey sent to the King of the Togo

and, according to Cudjo, said: “‘You have corn and yams, and cattle,

you must give me half.’ He lived like at Montgomery, the Togo live

like Mobile--One sleep away about 200 miles. The King says: ‘No, you

have hands you make corn and yams and fruit for yourself.’ The King at

Dahomey he was very mad because we send message like that so he say:

‘We make war on the people of Togo.’ But he be afraid. One traitor from

Togo, he wants big honors in the army so he goes to King of Dahomey

and say: ‘I show you how to take Togo.’ All night they march. Some go

on one side. They hide, lay low down in de woods. Others go on other

side, they lay low in de woods. All around they go. Some come in, but

they say when they git inside: ‘Don’t make no noise.’” (The ambush was

to keep hidden until they heard the slaughter begin. Then they were to

intercept the fleeing.) “Oh Loi! Oh Loi!” said Cudjo thus telling the

story and crossing his arms upon his bosom.



The village was surrounded at daybreak with great slaughter. The

surprised village was helpless before the cruel forces of Dahomey.

The women warriors perpetrated the most awful butchery. Some of the

men when attacked were already in the field working to get their

work done before the heat of the day. They were butchered without

quarter. Not one escaped. The invaders fell upon the sleeping women and

children. All were either killed or captured. Dahomey’s women warriors

overpowered and bound the most stalwart men. The women in their paint

and dress looked like men. The victors cut off the heads of the dead,

leaving the bodies where they had fallen. The heads were taken home as

evidence of individual valor and as trophies to be hung on the huts

at Dahomey. Cudjo’s face still registers horror when he tells of this

awful experience.



On their march to the Coast, they were forced to behold the dangling

heads of their relatives and friends. When they grew offensive, the

Dahomans stopped the march that they might smoke the heads. As they

passed near one of Dahomey’s villages at a curve in the big road, they

caught sight of fresh heads raised on poles above the huts. With the

captives there were some of other tribes, friends who had been visiting

in the raided village. The towns they passed through on their march to

the sea were “Eko,” “Budigree” (Badraejy?), “Adache” and Whydah. At

Whydah was a white house on the river bank, behind this was a stockade

in which they were held about three weeks, at which time Captain Bill

Foster came.



Captain Foster left Mobile secretly and made a good voyage until he

was near Cape Verde Islands. A hurricane struck him and he had to put

in there for repairs. The Northern crew of the _Clotilde_ mutinied for

more pay and threatened to inform the officials of the purpose of his

voyage. Foster hurriedly promised more pay without the slightest intent

of keeping his word. His wife in relating this incident remarked that

the Captain had always said that promises were like pie crust--made to

be broken. He made friends with the Portuguese officials by gifts of

shawls and sailed away when repairs were made and anchored safely in

the Gulf of Guinea where he had to anchor more than a mile from shore

and be taken to land in a small boat.



On shore, he was taken by six stalwart blacks to the presence of a

prince of Dahomey, a great, stout black weighing over three hundred

pounds. This prince was hospitable and showed Foster the sights of

Whydah, one of which was a large square filled with thousands of snakes

kept for religious ceremonies. Wishing to make a present to Foster,

this prince asked him to select a native, one that the “Superior wisdom

and exalted taste” of Foster designated the finest specimen. Gumpa was

his choice. Foster made this selection with the intention of flattering

the Prince to whom Gumpa was closely related. This accounts for one

member of Dahomey’s tribe in “African Town.” He became known as African

Peter. He used to tell his story in a sentence: “My people sold me and

your people bought me.”



When Captain Foster went to the stockade where the captives were

imprisoned they were placed in circles composed of ten men or ten

women, Foster standing in the middle. Says Cudjo: “He looked and looked

and looked. Then he pointed to one and then to another.” Foster thus

selected one hundred and thirty after which he got into the hammock

and was conveyed across the river to the beach. Behind him marched the

captives chained one behind the other. They had to wade, the water

coming up to their necks.



They wore clothes made of cotton but as they stepped into the

small boats which were to take them to the _Clotilde_ the Dahomans

avariciously tore their garments from them. Men and women alike were

left entirely nude. This is still a great humiliation to Cudjo. He

regards as great injustice the accusations of some of the American

Negroes that they were naked.



The captives were put into the hold of the _Clotilde_. In this respect

the _Clotilde_ was better equipped than most slavers. The usual space

in which the “Middle Passage” was made was from two and a half to three

feet in height, and the miserable captives were stowed away very much

as sardines are packed in tins without even room to sit up. The hold of

the _Clotilde_ was deep enough to permit the men of lesser stature to

stand erect.



When one hundred and sixteen had been brought aboard, Foster went up

into the rigging with his glasses to look about the harbor. He said

that all of Dahomey’s vessels were flying black flags. He hurried down

and gave orders to leave all slaves who were not yet aboard, to weigh

anchor, and to get immediately under way. The treacherous Dahomans

dealt also in piracy, and were making ready to head down upon the

_Clotilde_, recapture the slaves and take Foster and crew prisoners.

She made her escape, likewise evading an English cruiser.



At the end of the thirteenth day the Africans were removed from their

close, dark quarters. Their limbs were so cramped and numbed they

refused to obey their wills, so they were supported by some of the crew

and walked about the deck until the use of their limbs returned. Says

Cudjo: “We looked and looked and looked and we saw nothing but water.

When we come from (which direction) we do not know, whar we go, we do

not know.” One day they saw islands.



Cudjo says that on the twentieth day Foster seemed uneasy, that he

climbed the mast and looked with glasses for a long time. Then he came

hurriedly down, ordered the sails down, threw out the anchors, and

ordered the Africans back into the hole. Thus the ship lay until night.

The captives were close observers. During the voyage they seem to have

been very alert. They noted the varying colors of the sea.



Foster was kind to them, though they were fed very sparingly and only a

little water was given them twice a day. “Oh Loi! Oh Loi!” says Cudjo,

“we so thirst! Dey gib us leetle beeta water twelve hours. Oh Loi! Oh

Loi!” The water tasted sour (of vinegar, not putrid).



When the _Clotilde_ sailed into American waters, they were put back

into the hold. Three days before they landed when the _Clotilde_ lay

waiting behind the islands in the Mississippi Sound and near the lower

end of Mobile Bay, a bunch of green boughs was brought to them to show

that the voyage was almost at an end.



To make the hiding more secure, the _Clotilde_ was dismasted. Then

Foster got into a small boat rowed by four sailors to go to the

western shore of Mobile Bay, intending to send word to Meaher that the

_Clotilde_ had arrived. His approach was regarded with suspicion by

some men ashore and he was fired upon. Waving a white handkerchief,

he allayed their doubts, and he offered fifty dollars for a conveyance

which would take him to Mobile.



Captain Foster reached Mobile on a Sunday morning in August, 1859, his

return from the Slave Coast being made in seventy days. Arrangements

had long been made that a tug should lie in readiness to go at a

moment’s notice down Mobile Bay to tow the _Clotilde_ and her cargo to

safety. When the news came, the pilot of the tug was attending service

at St. John’s Church. Captain Jim Meaher and James Dennison, a Negro

slave, hurried to the church. The three hastened down to the wharf and

were soon aboard the tug. They waited for darkness to approach the

_Clotilde_. It was made fast and the trip up the bay was begun. _The

last slave ship was at the end of its voyage._



The tug avoided the Mobile River channel, slipped behind the light

house on Battery Gladden, into Spanish River. As the _Clotilde_ passed

opposite Mobile the clock in the old Spanish tower struck eleven, and

the watchman’s voice floated over the city and across the marshes:

“Eleven o’clock and all is well.”



The _Clotilde_ was taken directly to Twelve Mile Island, a lonely

place. There waited the _R. B. Taney_, named for Chief Justice Taney of

Dred Scott decision fame. Some say the _June_. Lights were smothered

and in the darkness, quickly and quietly the captives were transferred

to the steamboat and taken up the Alabama River to John Dabney’s

plantation below Mount Vernon. They were landed the next day.



At Twelve Mile Island, the crew of Northern sailors again mutinied.

Captain Foster, with a six shooter in each hand, went among them,

discharged them and ordered them to “hit the grit and never be seen in

Southern waters again.” They were placed aboard the tug. Meaher bought

tickets and saw that they be put on a train for the North.



The _Clotilde_ was scuttled and fired. Captain Foster himself placed

seven cords of light wood upon her. Her hull lay in the Marsh of Bayou

Corne, and could be seen for many years. It is now below water. Foster

afterwards regretted her destruction as she was worth more than the ten

Africans given him by the Meahers as his booty.



The Africans were kept at Dabney’s place for eleven days, being only

allowed to talk in whispers, and constantly moved from place to place.

At the end of the eleventh day, clothes were brought to them, and they

were put on board the steamer _Commodore_ and carried to the Bend in

Clark County where the Alabama and the Tombigbee rivers meet and where

Burns Meaher had a plantation. On the Dabney plantation they had been

left in the charge of the slave James Dennison who later married Kanko,

one of their number, and became a resident of “African Town.” On the

Burns Meaher place they were lodged each night under a wagon shed, and

driven each morning before daybreak back into the swamp where they

remained until dark.



Meaher sent word secretly to those disposed to buy. They were piloted

to the place of concealment by James Dennison. The Africans were placed

in two long rows, the women on one side, the men on the other. Some

with tears streaming down their faces and shouting “Ele, Ele! Home,

Home!” (?) were sold and sent to Selma. Of this band until recently

a man and woman still lived. Captain Meaher took thirty-two slaves,

sixteen men and sixteen women, Captain Burns Meaher ten, five of each,

Captain Bill Foster ten, Captain Jim Meaher about eight. Finally

Captain Tim Meaher put them to work. “We astonish to see de mule behind

de plow to pull,” said Cudjo.



The Africans, however, would stand for no mistreatment. “Once an

overseer attempted something which the women considered as such and he

was overpowered by them and given a sound thrashing.”



After war was declared there was no danger of exposure and the Africans

belonging to all mentioned above were taken to the Meaher settlement

at Magazine Point where they were kindly treated by their respective

owners. Burns Meaher alone kept his and they told of great hardships;

but after the close of the Civil War, these joined the others at

Magazine Point.



The part they settled became known as “African Town.” The name Plateau

was bestowed when the Mobile and Birmingham (now Southern Railway) came

through. The town of Plateau, with Magazine Point, has two thousand

inhabitants. It is not incorporated. It has no Mayor, although one

Murray, the store keeper, is referred to as such. The Meaher heirs

still hold a large part of the real estate and all of the mill sites.

There is no pavement of any kind. The settlement is not lighted.



The slave experience prepared the Africans for what came thereafter.

They were able to manage crops and make a living. The men went to work

at a dollar a day in the mills and the women made and marketed the

produce. They seem to have been very industrious, for most of them

became home owners.



After emancipation, these Africans wished to go back to their own

country, but they had no means. They concluded to save and said to

their wives: “Now we want to go home and it takes a lot of money. You

must help us save. You see fine clothes--You must not crave them.” The

wives promised and answered: “You see fine clothes and new hats--now

don’t you crave them either. We will work together.” They found that

they could save almost nothing. They talked among themselves of how

Meaher had brought them from their native land and how now they had

neither home nor country. Cudjo was always the spokesman. He would

present their case to Meaher.



Soon after he was cutting timber just back of where the schoolhouse now

stands, Captain Tim Meaher came along and sat upon a felled tree. Cudjo

saw his opportunity and stopped work, all his emotions in his face.



The Captain looked up from the stick he was whittling and asked:

“Cudjo, what makes you so sad?”



“I grieve for my home,” said Cudjo.



“But you got a good home.”



“Captain Tim, how big is Mobile?”



“I don’t know, I’ve never been to the four corners, Cudjo.”



“If you give Cudjo all Mobile, that railroad, and the banks of Mobile,

Cudjo does not want them, for this is not home.”



Cudjo in relating this breaks down in tears, saying “Oh Loi! Oh Loi!”



“Captain Tim, you brought us from our country where we had land and

home. You made us slaves. Now we are free, without country, land or

home. Why don’t you give us a piece of this land and let us build

ourselves an African Town?”



“Fool! Do you think I will give you property upon property? You do not

belong to me now!”



So they all bought property from Meaher, who made them no concessions.

They worked and saved, living on molasses and corn bread or mush. Their

African home faded as each year bound them closer to America. They

became farmers, and Cudjo still makes his living this way.



Having no head of the tribe and understanding that in a country of

different institutions a king would look ridiculous, they selected

Gumpa, African Peter and Jaybee as judges to preside over the colony.

When disagreements came up, word would be sent each member that there

would be a meeting at a certain place after dark, their only leisure

time, possibly at the home of one of the judges. The offender would be

given a hearing before the whole group. The first time the criminal

would be reprimanded; if he again offended, a whipping was administered

by one of the judges.



When the Africans were set free, all days were alike. But some American

Negroes came to them and led them into the Church and all became

ardent Christians. Cudjo is most devout. They built first “The African

Church.” It is now called the “Old Land Mark Baptist Church” with Rev.

Mr. Keeby as pastor.



The last eight of the one hundred and sixteen Africans were: Abache

(Clara Turner), Monachee (Kitty Cooper), Shamber, Kanko (who married

Jim Dennison), Zooma (of Togo Tribe), Polute, Cudjo, and Orsey, or

Orsta Keeby. Cudjo is the only one alive at present, a dignified,

lovable, intelligent man.



Cudjo says he wishes at times to return to his native land, but he

realizes that he would be a stranger there. He doubts even if he could

locate the graves of his relatives. All that he is sure of is here,

the graves of his wife Albine and all of his children. He has numerous

descendants. He is glad that he was brought to America, since here

he found the true God. He is very vigorous though he is nearing the

century mark.



Cudjo likes to tell Old Testament stories and Samson is his favorite.

He is fond of making what he calls parables. He made one about his

wife’s death. He places his head in his hands and “lifts it up” to

speak his “parable.” Cudjo lifted his head and spoke this:



 I will make a parable. Cudjo and Albine have gone to Mobile together.

 They get on the train to go home and sit side by side. The conductor

 comes along and says to Cudjo: “Where are you going to get off?” and

 Cudjo answers: “Mount Vernon.”



 The conductor then asks Albine: “Where are you going to get off?” and

 she replies: “Plateau.”



 Mount Vernon is several miles beyond Plateau.



 Cudjo is surprised. He turns to Albine and asks: “Why, Albine! How is

 this? Why do you say you are going to get off at Plateau?”



 She answers: “I must get off.” The train stops and Albine gets off.

 Cudjo stays on. He is alone. But old Cudjo has not reached Mount

 Vernon yet. He is still journeying on.



He made another parable about his wife. He lifted up his head and said:



 I will make a parable. “Suppose you come to my house and want to go

 to Keeby’s. You have an umbrella and you leave it in my care. When

 you come back you ask for your umbrella. Must I give it to you or

 keep it?” “No, Cudjo, you cannot keep it. It belongs to me. It is not

 yours.” Triumphantly Cudjo concludes: “Neither could I keep Albine;

 she was just left in my care.”



                                                      ZORA NEALE HURSTON









Footnotes



[1] This story was secured by Miss Zora Neale Hurston, an investigator

of the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History. She made a

special trip to Mobile to interview Cudjo Lewis, the only survivor of

this last cargo. She made some use, too, of the _Voyage of Clotilde_

and other records of the Mobile Historical Society.



[2] According to some accounts these slaves were brought from Loanda.









Transcriber’s Notes:



New original cover art included with this eBook is granted

to the public domain.



Perceived typographical errors have been silently corrected.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CUDJO'S OWN STORY OF THE LAST AFRICAN SLAVER ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.