CONTENTS





    CHAPTER I                               PAGE

    MY WORK AND MY WORKSHOP                    1



    CHAPTER II

    THE SACRED BEETLE                         11



    CHAPTER III

    THE CICADA                                25



    CHAPTER IV

    THE PRAYING MANTIS                        40



    CHAPTER V

    THE GLOW-WORM                             54



    CHAPTER VI

    A MASON-WASP                              69



    CHAPTER VII

    THE PSYCHES                               89



    CHAPTER VIII

    THE SELF-DENIAL OF THE SPANISH COPRIS    109



    CHAPTER IX

    TWO STRANGE GRASSHOPPERS                 121



    CHAPTER X

    COMMON WASPS                             138



    CHAPTER XI

    THE ADVENTURES OF A GRUB                 157



    CHAPTER XII

    THE CRICKET                              175



    CHAPTER XIII

    THE SISYPHUS                             198



    CHAPTER XIV

    THE CAPRICORN                            209



    CHAPTER XV

    LOCUSTS                                  227



    CHAPTER XVI

    THE ANTHRAX FLY                          249

















LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS





THE SACRED BEETLE                                          Frontispiece



    Sometimes the Scarab seems to enter into partnership with

    a friend



THE CICADA                                                  FACING PAGE



    In July, when most of the insects in my sunny country are

    parched with thirst, the Cicada remains perfectly cheerful       26



THE PRAYING MANTIS



    A long time ago, in the days of ancient Greece, this insect

    was named Mantis, or the Prophet                                 42



PELOPÆUS SPIRIFEX



    When finished the work is amber-yellow, and rather reminds

    one of the outer skin of an onion                                80



THE PSYCHES



    This is the secret of the walking bundle of sticks. It is a

    Faggot Caterpillar, belonging to the group known as the Psyches  90



THE SPANISH COPRIS



    The burrow is almost filled by three or four ovoid nests,

    standing one against the other, with the pointed end upwards    116



THE WHITE-FACED DECTICUS



    The Greek word dectikos means biting, fond of biting. The

    Decticus is well named. It is eminently an insect given

    to biting                                                       130



COMMON WASPS



    The wasp’s nest is made of a thin, flexible material like

    brown paper, formed of particles of wood                        144



THE FIELD CRICKET



    Here is one of the humblest of creatures able to lodge himself

    to perfection. He has a home; he has a peaceful retreat, the

    first condition of comfort                                      180



THE SISYPHUS



    The mother harnesses herself in the place of honour, in front.

    The father pushes behind in the reverse position, head

    downwards                                                       204



ITALIAN LOCUSTS



    “I have buried underground,” she says, “the treasure of

    the future”                                                     238



THE ANTHRAX FLY



    Her delicate suit of downy velvet, from which you take the

    bloom by merely breathing on it, could not withstand the

    contact of rough tunnels                                        258

















FABRE’S BOOK OF INSECTS





CHAPTER I



MY WORK AND MY WORKSHOP





We all have our own talents, our special gifts. Sometimes these gifts

seem to come to us from our forefathers, but more often it is difficult

to trace their origin.



A goatherd, perhaps, amuses himself by counting little pebbles and

doing sums with them. He becomes an astoundingly quick reckoner, and in

the end is a professor of mathematics. Another boy, at an age when most

of us care only for play, leaves his schoolfellows at their games and

listens to the imaginary sounds of an organ, a secret concert heard by

him alone. He has a genius for music. A third—so small, perhaps, that

he cannot eat his bread and jam without smearing his face—takes a keen

delight in fashioning clay into little figures that are amazingly

lifelike. If he be fortunate he will some day be a famous sculptor.



To talk about oneself is hateful, I know, but perhaps I may be allowed

to do so for a moment, in order to introduce myself and my studies.



From my earliest childhood I have felt drawn towards the things of

Nature. It would be ridiculous to suppose that this gift, this love of

observing plants and insects, was inherited from my ancestors, who were

uneducated people of the soil and observed little but their own cows

and sheep. Of my four grandparents only one ever opened a book, and

even he was very uncertain about his spelling. Nor do I owe anything to

a scientific training. Without masters, without guides, often without

books, I have gone forward with one aim always before me: to add a few

pages to the history of insects.



As I look back—so many years back!—I can see myself as a tiny boy,

extremely proud of my first braces and of my attempts to learn the

alphabet. And very well I remember the delight of finding my first

bird’s nest and gathering my first mushroom.



One day I was climbing a hill. At the top of it was a row of trees that

had long interested me very much. From the little window at home I

could see them against the sky, tossing before the wind or writhing

madly in the snow, and I wished to have a closer view of them. It was a

long climb—ever so long; and my legs were very short. I clambered up

slowly and tediously, for the grassy slope was as steep as a roof.



Suddenly, at my feet, a lovely bird flew out from its hiding-place

under a big stone. In a moment I had found the nest, which was made of

hair and fine straw, and had six eggs laid side by side in it. The eggs

were a magnificent azure blue, very bright. This was the first nest I

ever found, the first of the many joys which the birds were to bring

me. Overpowered with pleasure, I lay down on the grass and stared at

it.



Meanwhile the mother-bird was flying about uneasily from stone to

stone, crying ”Tack! Tack!” in a voice of the greatest anxiety. I was

too small to understand what she was suffering. I made a plan worthy of

a little beast of prey. I would carry away just one of the pretty blue

eggs as a trophy, and then, in a fortnight, I would come back and take

the tiny birds before they could fly away. Fortunately, as I walked

carefully home, carrying my blue egg on a bed of moss, I met the

priest.



“Ah!” said he. “A Saxicola’s egg! Where did you get it?”



I told him the whole story. “I shall go back for the others,” I said,

“when the young birds have got their quill-feathers.”



“Oh, but you mustn’t do that!” cried the priest.



“You mustn’t be so cruel as to rob the poor mother of all her little

birds. Be a good boy, now, and promise not to touch the nest.”



From this conversation I learnt two things: first, that robbing birds’

nests is cruel and, secondly, that birds and beasts have names just

like ourselves.



“What are the names of all my friends in the woods and meadows?” I

asked myself. “And what does Saxicola mean?” Years later I learnt that

Saxicola means an inhabitant of the rocks. My bird with the blue eggs

was a Stone-chat.



Below our village there ran a little brook, and beyond the brook was a

spinney of beeches with smooth, straight trunks, like pillars. The

ground was padded with moss. It was in this spinney that I picked my

first mushroom, which looked, when I caught sight of it, like an egg

dropped on the moss by some wandering hen. There were many others

there, of different sizes, forms, and colours. Some were shaped like

bells, some like extinguishers, some like cups: some were broken, and

were weeping tears of milk: some became blue when I trod on them.

Others, the most curious of all, were like pears with a round hole at

the top—a sort of chimney whence a whiff of smoke escaped when I

prodded their under-side with my finger. I filled my pockets with

these, and made them smoke at my leisure, till at last they were

reduced to a kind of tinder.



Many a time I returned to that delightful spinney, and learnt my first

lessons in mushroom-lore in the company of the Crows. My collections, I

need hardly say, were not admitted to the house.



In this way—by observing Nature and making experiments—nearly all my

lessons have been learnt: all except two, in fact. I have received from

others two lessons of a scientific character, and two only, in the

whole course of my life: one in anatomy and one in chemistry.



I owe the first to the learned naturalist Moquin-Tandon, who showed me

how to explore the interior of a Snail in a plate filled with water.

The lesson was short and fruitful. [1]



My first introduction to chemistry was less fortunate. It ended in the

bursting of a glass vessel, with the result that most of my

fellow-pupils were hurt, one of them nearly lost his sight, the

lecturer’s clothes were burnt to pieces, and the wall of the

lecture-room was splashed with stains. Later on, when I returned to

that room, no longer as a pupil but as a master, the splashes were

still there. On that occasion I learnt one thing at least. Ever after,

when I made experiments of that kind, I kept my pupils at a distance.



It has always been my great desire to have a laboratory in the open

fields—not an easy thing to obtain when one lives in a state of

constant anxiety about one’s daily bread. For forty years it was my

dream to own a little bit of land, fenced in for the sake of privacy: a

desolate, barren, sun-scorched bit of land, overgrown with thistles and

much beloved by Wasps and Bees. Here, without fear of interruption, I

might question the Hunting-wasps and others of my friends in that

difficult language which consists of experiments and observations.

Here, without the long expeditions and rambles that use up my time and

strength, I might watch my insects at every hour of the day.



And then, at last, my wish was fulfilled. I obtained a bit of land in

the solitude of a little village. It was a harmas, which is the name we

give in this part of Provence to an untilled, pebbly expanse where

hardly any plant but thyme can grow. It is too poor to be worth the

trouble of ploughing, but the sheep pass there in spring, when it has

chanced to rain and a little grass grows up.



My own particular harmas, however, had a small quantity of red earth

mixed with the stones, and had been roughly cultivated. I was told that

vines once grew here, and I was sorry, for the original vegetation had

been driven out by the three-pronged fork. There was no thyme left, nor

lavender, nor a single clump of the dwarf oak. As thyme and lavender

might be useful to me as a hunting-ground for Bees and Wasps, I was

obliged to plant them again.



There were plenty of weeds: couch-grass, and prickly centauries, and

the fierce Spanish oyster-plant, with its spreading orange flowers and

spikes strong as nails. Above it towered the Illyrian cotton-thistle,

whose straight and solitary stalk grows sometimes to the height of six

feet and ends in large pink tufts. There were smaller thistles too, so

well armed that the plant-collector can hardly tell where to grasp

them, and spiky knapweeds, and in among them, in long lines provided

with hooks, the shoots of the blue dewberry creeping along the ground.

If you had visited this prickly thicket without wearing high boots, you

would have paid dearly for your rashness!



Such was the Eden that I won by forty years of desperate struggle.



This curious, barren Paradise of mine is the happy hunting-ground of

countless Bees and Wasps. Never have I seen so large a population of

insects at a single spot. All the trades have made it their centre.

Here come hunters of every kind of game, builders in clay,

cotton-weavers, leaf-cutters, architects in pasteboard, plasterers

mixing mortar, carpenters boring wood, miners digging underground

galleries, workers in gold-beaters’ skin, and many more.



See—here is a Tailor-bee. She scrapes the cobwebby stalk of the

yellow-flowered centaury, and gathers a ball of wadding which she

carries off proudly with her mandibles or jaws. She will turn it,

underground, into cotton satchels to hold the store of honey and the

eggs. And here are the Leaf-cutting Bees, carrying their black, white,

or blood-red reaping brushes under their bodies. They will visit the

neighbouring shrubs, and there cut from the leaves oval pieces in which

to wrap their harvest. Here too are the black, velvet-clad Mason-bees,

who work with cement and gravel. We could easily find specimens of

their masonry on the stones in the harmas. Next comes a kind of Wild

Bee who stacks her cells in the winding staircase of an empty

snail-shell; and another who lodges her grubs in the pith of a dry

bramble-stalk; and a third who uses the channel of a cut reed; and a

fourth who lives rent-free in the vacant galleries of some Mason-bee.

There are also Bees with horns, and Bees with brushes on their

hind-legs, to be used for reaping.



While the walls of my harmas were being built some great heaps of

stones and mounds of sand were scattered here and there by the

builders, and were soon occupied by a variety of inhabitants. The

Mason-bees chose the chinks between the stones for their

sleeping-place. The powerful Eyed Lizard, who, when hard pressed,

attacks both man and dog, selected a cave in which to lie in wait for

the passing Scarab, or Sacred Beetle. The Black-eared Chat, who looks

like a Dominican monk in his white-and-black raiment, sat on the top

stone singing his brief song. His nest, with the sky-blue eggs, must

have been somewhere in the heap. When the stones were moved the little

Dominican moved too. I regret him: he would have been a charming

neighbour. The Eyed Lizard I do not regret at all.



The sand-heaps sheltered a colony of Digger-wasps and Hunting-wasps,

who were, to my sorrow, turned out at last by the builders. But still

there are hunters left: some who flutter about in search of

Caterpillars, and one very large kind of Wasp who actually has the

courage to hunt the Tarantula. Many of these mighty Spiders have their

burrows in the harmas, and you can see their eyes gleaming at the

bottom of the den like little diamonds. On hot summer afternoons you

may also see Amazon-ants, who leave their barracks in long battalions

and march far afield to hunt for slaves.



Nor are these all. The shrubs about the house are full of birds,

Warblers and Greenfinches, Sparrows and Owls; while the pond is so

popular with the Frogs that in May it becomes a deafening orchestra.

And boldest of all, the Wasp has taken possession of the house itself.

On my doorway lives the White-banded Sphex: when I go indoors I must be

careful not to tread upon her as she carries on her work of mining.

Just within a closed window a kind of Mason-wasp has made her

earth-built nest upon the freestone wall. To enter her home she uses a

little hole left by accident in the shutters. On the mouldings of the

Venetian blinds a few stray Mason-bees build their cells. The Common

Wasp and the Solitary Wasp visit me at dinner. The object of their

visit, apparently, is to see if my grapes are ripe.



Such are my companions. My dear beasts, my friends of former days and

other more recent acquaintances, are all here, hunting, and building,

and feeding their families. And if I wish for change the mountain is

close to me, with its tangle of arbutus, and rock-roses, and heather,

where Wasps and Bees delight to gather. And that is why I deserted the

town for the village, and came to Sérignan to weed my turnips and water

my lettuces.

















CHAPTER II



THE SACRED BEETLE





I



THE BALL



It is six or seven thousand years since the Sacred Beetle was first

talked about. The peasant of ancient Egypt, as he watered his patch of

onions in the spring, would see from time to time a fat black insect

pass close by, hurriedly trundling a ball backwards. He would watch the

queer rolling thing in amazement, as the peasant of Provence watches it

to this day.



The early Egyptians fancied that this ball was a symbol of the earth,

and that all the Scarab’s actions were prompted by the movements of the

heavenly bodies. So much knowledge of astronomy in a Beetle seemed to

them almost divine, and that is why he is called the Sacred Beetle.

They also thought that the ball he rolled on the ground contained the

egg, and that the young Beetle came out of it. But as a matter of fact,

it is simply his store of food.



It is not at all nice food. For the work of this Beetle is to scour the

filth from the surface of the soil. The ball he rolls so carefully is

made of his sweepings from the roads and fields.



This is how he sets about it. The edge of his broad, flat head is

notched with six teeth arranged in a semi-circle, like a sort of curved

rake; and this he uses for digging and cutting up, for throwing aside

the stuff he does not want, and scraping together the food he chooses.

His bow-shaped fore-legs are also useful tools, for they are very

strong, and they too have five teeth on the outside. So if a vigorous

effort be needed to remove some obstacle the Scarab makes use of his

elbows, that is to say he flings his toothed legs to right and left,

and clears a space with an energetic sweep. Then he collects armfuls of

the stuff he has raked together, and pushes it beneath him, between the

four hinder-legs. These are long and slender, especially the last pair,

slightly bowed and finished with a sharp claw. The Beetle then presses

the stuff against his body with his hind-legs, curving it and spinning

it round and round till it forms a perfect ball. In a moment a tiny

pellet grows to the size of a walnut, and soon to that of an apple. I

have seen some gluttons manufacture a ball as big as a man’s fist.



When the ball of provisions is ready it must be moved to a suitable

place. The Beetle begins the journey. He clasps the ball with his long

hind-legs and walks with his fore-legs, moving backwards with his head

down and his hind-quarters in the air. He pushes his load behind him by

alternate thrusts to right and left. One would expect him to choose a

level road, or at least a gentle incline. Not at all! Let him find

himself near some steep slope, impossible to climb, and that is the

very path the obstinate creature will attempt. The ball, that enormous

burden, is painfully hoisted step by step, with infinite precautions,

to a certain height, always backwards. Then by some rash movement all

this toil is wasted: the ball rolls down, dragging the Beetle with it.

Once more the heights are climbed, and another fall is the result.

Again and again the insect begins the ascent. The merest trifle ruins

everything; a grass-root may trip him up or a smooth bit of gravel make

him slip, and down come ball and Beetle, all mixed up together. Ten or

twenty times he will start afresh, till at last he is successful, or

else sees the hopelessness of his efforts and resigns himself to taking

the level road.



Sometimes the Scarab seems to enter into partnership with a friend.

This is the way in which it usually happens. When the Beetle’s ball is

ready he leaves the crowd of workers, pushing his prize backwards. A

neighbour, whose own task is hardly begun, suddenly drops his work and

runs to the moving ball, to lend a hand to the owner. His aid seems to

be accepted willingly. But the new-comer is not really a partner: he is

a robber. To make one’s own ball needs hard work and patience; to steal

one ready-made, or to invite oneself to a neighbour’s dinner, is much

easier. Some thieving Beetles go to work craftily, others use violence.



Sometimes a thief comes flying up, knocks over the owner of the ball,

and perches himself on top of it. With his fore-legs crossed over his

breast, ready to hit out, he awaits events. If the owner raises himself

to seize his ball the robber gives him a blow that stretches him on his

back. Then the owner gets up and shakes the ball till it begins

rolling, and perhaps the thief falls off. A wrestling-match follows.

The two Beetles grapple with one another: their legs lock and unlock,

their joints intertwine, their horny armour clashes and grates with the

rasping sound of metal under a file. The one who is successful climbs

to the top of the ball, and after two or three attempts to dislodge him

the defeated Scarab goes off to make himself a new pellet. I have

sometimes seen a third Beetle appear, and rob the robber.



But sometimes the thief bides his time and trusts to cunning. He

pretends to help the victim to roll the food along, over sandy plains

thick with thyme, over cart-ruts and steep places, but he really does

very little of the work, preferring to sit on the ball and do nothing.

When a suitable place for a burrow is reached the rightful owner begins

to dig with his sharp-edged forehead and toothed legs, flinging armfuls

of sand behind him, while the thief clings to the ball, shamming dead.

The cave grows deeper and deeper, and the working Scarab disappears

from view. Whenever he comes to the surface he glances at the ball, on

which the other lies, demure and motionless, inspiring confidence. But

as the absences of the owner become longer the thief seizes his chance,

and hurriedly makes off with the ball, which he pushes behind him with

the speed of a pickpocket afraid of being caught. If the owner catches

him, as sometimes happens, he quickly changes his position, and seems

to plead as an excuse that the pellet rolled down the slope, and he was

only trying to stop it! And the two bring the ball back as though

nothing had happened.



If the thief has managed to get safely away, however, the owner can

only resign himself to his loss, which he does with admirable

fortitude. He rubs his cheeks, sniffs the air, flies off, and begins

his work all over again. I admire and envy his character.



At last his provisions are safely stored. His burrow is a shallow hole

about the size of a man’s fist, dug in soft earth or sand, with a short

passage to the surface, just wide enough to admit the ball. As soon as

his food is rolled into this burrow the Scarab shuts himself in by

stopping up the entrance with rubbish. The ball fills almost the whole

room: the banquet rises from floor to ceiling. Only a narrow passage

runs between it and the walls, and here sit the banqueters, two at

most, very often only one. Here the Sacred Beetle feasts day and night,

for a week or a fortnight at a time, without ceasing.









II



THE PEAR



As I have already said, the ancient Egyptians thought that the egg of

the Sacred Beetle was within the ball that I have been describing. I

have proved that it is not so. One day I discovered the truth about the

Scarab’s egg.



A young shepherd who helps me in his spare time came to me one Sunday

in June with a queer thing in his hand. It was exactly like a tiny pear

that had lost all its fresh colour and had turned brown in rotting. It

was firm to the touch and very graceful in shape, though the materials

of which it was formed seemed none too nicely chosen. The shepherd

assured me there was an egg inside it; for a similar pear, crushed by

accident in the digging, had contained a white egg the size of a grain

of wheat.



At daybreak the next morning the shepherd and I went out to investigate

the matter. We met among the browsing sheep, on some slopes that had

lately been cleared of trees.



A Sacred Beetle’s burrow is soon found: you can tell it by the fresh

little mound of earth above it. My companion dug vigorously into the

ground with my pocket trowel, while I lay down, the better to see what

was being unearthed. A cave opened out, and there I saw, lying in the

moist earth, a splendid pear upon the ground. I shall not soon forget

my first sight of the mother Beetle’s wonderful work. My excitement

could have been no greater had I, in digging among the relics of

ancient Egypt, found the sacred insect carved in emerald.



We went on with our search, and found a second hole. Here, by the side

of the pear and fondly embracing it, was the mother Beetle, engaged no

doubt in giving it the finishing touches before leaving the burrow for

good. There was no possible doubt that the pear was the nest of the

Scarab. In the course of the summer I found at least a hundred such

nests.



The pear, like the ball, is formed of refuse scraped up in the fields,

but the materials are less coarse, because they are intended for the

food of the grub. When it comes out of the egg it is incapable of

searching for its own meals, so the mother arranges that it shall find

itself surrounded by the food that suits it best. It can begin eating

at once, without further trouble.



The egg is laid in the narrow end of the pear. Every germ of life,

whether of plant or animal, needs air: even the shell of a bird’s egg

is riddled with an endless number of pores. If the germ of the Scarab

were in the thick part of the pear it would be smothered, because there

the materials are very closely packed, and are covered with a hard

rind. So the mother Beetle prepares a nice airy room with thin walls

for her little grub to live in, during its first moments. There is a

certain amount of air even in the very centre of the pear, but not

enough for a delicate baby-grub. By the time he has eaten his way to

the centre he is strong enough to manage with very little air.



There is, of course, a good reason for the hardness of the shell that

covers the big end of the pear. The Scarab’s burrow is extremely hot:

sometimes the temperature reaches boiling point. The provisions, even

though they have to last only three or four weeks, are liable to dry up

and become uneatable. When, instead of the soft food of its first meal,

the unhappy grub finds nothing to eat but horrible crusty stuff as hard

as a pebble, it is bound to die of hunger. I have found numbers of

these victims of the August sun. The poor things are baked in a sort of

closed oven. To lessen this danger the mother Beetle compresses the

outer layer of the pear—or nest—with all the strength of her stout,

flat fore-arms, to turn it into a protecting rind like the shell of a

nut. This helps to ward off the heat. In the hot summer months the

housewife puts her bread into a closed pan to keep it fresh. The insect

does the same in its own fashion: by dint of pressure it covers the

family bread with a pan.







I have watched the Sacred Beetle at work in her den, so I know how she

makes her pear-shaped nest.



With the building-materials she has collected she shuts herself up

underground so as to give her whole attention to the business in hand.

The materials may be obtained in two ways. As a rule, under natural

conditions, she kneads a ball in the usual way and rolls it to a

favourable spot. As it rolls along it hardens a little on the surface

and gathers a slight crust of earth and tiny grains of sand, which is

useful later on. Now and then, however, the Beetle finds a suitable

place for her burrow quite close to the spot where she collects her

building-materials, and in that case she simply bundles armfuls of

stuff into the hole. The result is most striking. One day I see a

shapeless lump disappear into the burrow. Next day, or the day after, I

visit the Beetle’s workshop and find the artist in front of her work.

The formless mass of scrapings has become a pear, perfect in outline

and exquisitely finished.



The part that rests on the floor of the burrow is crusted over with

particles of sand, while the rest is polished like glass. This shows

that the Beetle has not rolled the pear round and round, but has shaped

it where it lies. She has modelled it with little taps of her broad

feet, just as she models her ball in the daylight.



By making an artificial burrow for the mother Beetle in my own

workshop, with the help of a glass jar full of earth, and a peep-hole

through which I can observe operations, I have been able to see the

work in its various stages.



The Beetle first makes a complete ball. Then she starts the neck of the

pear by making a ring round the ball and applying pressure, till the

ring becomes a groove. In this way a blunt projection is pushed out at

one side of the ball. In the centre of this projection she employs

further pressure to form a sort of crater or hollow, with a swollen

rim; and gradually the hollow is made deeper and the swollen rim

thinner and thinner, till a sack is formed. In this sack, which is

polished and glazed inside, the egg is laid. The opening of the sack,

or extreme end of the pear, is then closed with a plug of stringy

fibres.



There is a reason for this rough plug—a most curious exception, when

nothing else has escaped the heavy blows of the insect’s leg. The end

of the egg rests against it, and, if the stopper were pressed down and

driven in, the infant grub might suffer. So the Beetle stops the hole

without ramming down the stopper.









III



THE GROWING-UP OF THE SCARAB



About a week or ten days after the laying of the egg, the grub is

hatched, and without delay begins to eat its house. It is a grub of

remarkable wisdom, for it always starts its meal with the thickest part

of the walls, and so avoids making a hole through which it might fall

out of the pear altogether. It soon becomes fat; and indeed it is an

ungainly creature at best, with an enormous hump on its back, and a

skin so transparent that if you hold it up to the light you can see its

internal organs. If the early Egyptian had chanced upon this plump

white grub he would never have suspected it to contain, in an

undeveloped state, the sober beauty of the Scarab!



When first it sheds its skin the insect that appears is not a

full-grown Scarab, though all the Scarab’s features can be recognised.

There are few insects so beautiful as this delicate creature with its

wing-cases living in front of it like a wide pleated scarf and its

fore-legs folded under its head. Half transparent and as yellow as

honey, it looks as though it were carved from a block of amber. For

four weeks it remains in this state, and then it too casts its skin.



Its colouring now is red-and-white,—so many times does the Sacred

Beetle change its garments before it finally appears black as ebony! As

it grows blacker it also grows harder, till it is covered with horny

armour and is a full-grown Beetle.



All this time he is underground, in the pear-shaped nest. Great is his

longing to burst the shell of his prison and come into the sunshine.

Whether he succeeds in doing so depends on circumstances.



It is generally August when he is ready for release, and August as a

rule is the driest and hottest month of the year. If therefore no rain

falls to soften the earth, the cell to be burst and the wall to be

broken defy the strength of the insect, which is helpless against all

that hardness. The soft material of the nest has become an impassable

rampart; it has turned into a sort of brick, baked in the kiln of

summer.



I have, of course, made experiments on insects that are ready to be

released. I lay the hard, dry shells in a box where they remain dry;

and sooner or later I hear a sharp, grating sound inside each cell. It

is the prisoner scraping the wall with the rakes on his forehead and

his fore-feet. Two or three days pass, and no progress seems to have

been made.



I try to help a couple of them by opening a loophole with my knife; but

these favoured ones make no more progress than the others.



In less than a fortnight silence reigns in all the shells. The

prisoners, worn out with their efforts, have all died.



Then I take some other shells, as hard as the first, wrap them in a wet

rag, and put them in a corked flask. When the moisture has soaked

through them I rid them of the wrapper, but keep them in the flask.

This time the experiment is a complete success. Softened by the wet the

shells are burst by the prisoner, who props himself boldly on his legs,

using his back as a lever, or else scrapes away at one point till the

walls crumble to pieces. In every case the Beetle is released.



In natural conditions, when the shells remain underground, the same

thing occurs. When the soil is burnt by the August sun it is impossible

for the insect to wear away his prison, which is hard as a brick. But

when a shower comes the shell recovers the softness of its early days:

the insect struggles with his legs and pushes with his back, and so

becomes free.



At first he shows no interest in food. What he wants above all is the

joy of the light. He sets himself in the sun, and there, motionless,

basks in the warmth.



Presently, however, he wishes to eat. With no one to teach him, he sets

to work, exactly like his elders, to make himself a ball of food. He

digs his burrow and stores it with provisions. Without ever learning

it, he knows his trade to perfection.

















CHAPTER III



THE CICADA





I



THE CICADA AND THE ANT



To most of us the Cicada’s song is unknown, for he lives in the land of

the olive-trees. But every one who has read La Fontaine’s “Fables” has

heard of the snub the Cicada received from the Ant, though La Fontaine

was not the first to tell the tale.



The Cicada, says the story, did nothing but sing all through the

summer, while the Ants were busy storing their provisions. When winter

came he was hungry, and hurried to his neighbour to borrow some food.

He met with a poor welcome.



“Why didn’t you gather your food in the summer?” asked the prudent Ant.



“I was busy singing all the summer,” said the Cicada.



“Singing, were you?” answered the Ant unkindly. “Well, then, now you

may dance!” And she turned her back on the beggar.



Now the insect in this fable could not possibly be a Cicada. La

Fontaine, it is plain, was thinking of the Grasshopper and as a matter

of fact the English translations usually substitute a Grasshopper for

the Cicada.



For my village does not contain a peasant so ignorant as to imagine the

Cicada ever exists in winter. Every tiller of the soil is familiar with

the grub of this insect, which he turns over with his spade whenever he

banks up the olive-trees at the approach of cold weather. A thousand

times he has seen the grub leave the ground through a round hole of its

own making, fasten itself to a twig, split its own back, take off its

skin, and turn into a Cicada.



The fable is a slander. The Cicada is no beggar, though it is true that

he demands a good deal of attention from his neighbours. Every summer

he comes and settles in his hundreds outside my door, amid the greenery

of two tall plane-trees; and here, from sunrise to sunset, he tortures

my head with the rasping of his harsh music. This deafening concert,

this incessant rattling and drumming, makes all thought impossible.



It is true, too, that there are sometimes dealings between the Cicada

and the Ant; but they are exactly the opposite of those described in

the fable. The Cicada is never dependent on others for his living. At

no time does he go crying famine at the doors of the Ant-hills. On the

contrary, it is the Ant who, driven by hunger, begs and entreats the

singer. Entreats, did I say? It is not the right word. She brazenly

robs him.



In July, when most of the insects in my sunny country are parched with

thirst, and vainly wander round the withered flowers in search of

refreshment, the Cicada remains perfectly cheerful. With his

rostrum—the delicate sucker, sharp as a gimlet, that he carries on his

chest—he broaches a cask in his inexhaustible cellar. Sitting, always

singing, on the branch of a shrub, he bores through the firm, smooth

bark, which is swollen with sap. Driving his sucker through the

bunghole, he drinks his fill.



If I watch him for a little while I may perhaps see him in unexpected

trouble. There are many thirsty insects in the neighbourhood, who soon

discover the sap that oozes from the Cicada’s well. They hasten up, at

first quietly and discreetly, to lick the fluid as it comes out. I see

Wasps, Flies, Earwigs, Rose-chafers, and above all, Ants.



The smallest, in order to reach the well, slip under the body of the

Cicada, who good-naturedly raises himself on his legs to let them pass.

The larger insects snatch a sip, retreat, take a walk on a neighbouring

branch, and then return more eager and enterprising than before. They

now become violent brigands, determined to chase the Cicada away from

his well.



The worst offenders are the Ants. I have seen them nibbling at the ends

of the Cicada’s legs, tugging at the tips of his wings, and climbing on

his back. Once a bold robber, before my very eyes, caught hold of a

Cicada’s sucker and tried to pull it out.



At last, worried beyond all patience, the singer deserts the well he

has made. The Ant has now attained her object: she is left in

possession of the spring. This dries up very soon, it is true; but,

having drunk all the sap that is there, she can wait for another drink

till she has a chance of stealing another well.



So you see that the actual facts are just the reverse of those in the

fable. The Ant is the hardened beggar: the industrious worker is the

Cicada.









II



THE CICADA’S BURROW



I am in an excellent position to study the habits of the Cicada, for I

live in his company. When July comes he takes possession of the

enclosures right up to the threshold of the house. I remain master

indoors, but out of doors he reigns supreme, and his reign is by no

means a peaceful one.



The first Cicada appear at midsummer. In the much-trodden, sun-baked

paths I see, level with the ground, round holes about the size of a

man’s thumb. Through these holes the Cicada-grubs come up from the

underground to be transformed into full-grown Cicadæ on the surface.

Their favourite places are the driest and sunniest; for these grubs are

provided with such powerful tools that they can bore through baked

earth or sandstone. When I examine their deserted burrows I have to use

my pickaxe.



The first thing one notices is that the holes, which measure nearly an

inch across, have absolutely no rubbish round them. There is no mound

of earth thrown up outside. Most of the digging insects, such as the

Dorbeetles for instance, make a mole-hill above their burrows. The

reason for this difference lies in their manner of working. The

Dorbeetle begins his work at the mouth of the hole, so he can heap up

on the surface the material he digs out: but the Cicada-grub comes up

from below. The last thing he does is to make the doorway, and he

cannot heap rubbish on a threshold that does not yet exist.



The Cicada’s tunnel runs to a depth of fifteen or sixteen inches. It is

quite open the whole way. It ends in a rather wider space, but is

completely closed at the bottom. What has become of the earth removed

to make this tunnel? And why do not the walls crumble? One would expect

that the grub, climbing up and down with his clawed legs, would make

landslips and block up his own house.



Well, he behaves like a miner or a railway-engineer. The miner holds up

his galleries with pit-props; the builder of railways strengthens his

tunnel with a casing of brickwork; the Cicada is as clever as either of

them, and covers the walls of his tunnel with cement. He carries a

store of sticky fluid hidden within him, with which to make this

plaster. His burrow is always built above some tiny rootlet containing

sap, and from this root he renews his supply of fluid.



It is very important for him to be able to run up and down his burrow

at his ease, because, when the time comes for him to find his way into

the sunshine, he wants to know what the weather is like outside. So he

works away for weeks, perhaps for months, to make a funnel with good

strong plastered walls, on which he can clamber. At the top he leaves a

layer as thick as one’s finger, to protect him from the outer air till

the last moment. At the least hint of fine weather he scrambles up,

and, through the thin lid at the top, inquires into the state of the

weather.



If he suspects a storm or rain on the surface—matter of great

importance to a delicate grub when he takes off his skin!—he slips

prudently back to the bottom of his snug funnel. But if the weather

seems warm he smashes his ceiling with a few strokes of his claws, and

climbs to the surface.



It is the fluid substance carried by the Cicada-grub in his swollen

body that enables him to get rid of the rubbish in his burrow. As he

digs he sprinkles the dusty earth and turns it into paste. The walls

then become soft and yielding. The mud squeezes into the chinks of the

rough soil, and the grub compresses it with his fat body. This is why,

when he appears at the top, he is always covered with wet stains.







For some time after the Cicada-grub’s first appearance above-ground he

wanders about the neighbourhood, looking for a suitable spot in which

to cast off his skin—a tiny bush, a tuft of thyme, a blade of grass, or

the twig of a shrub. When he finds it he climbs up, and clings to it

firmly with the claws of his fore-feet. His fore-legs stiffen into an

immovable grip.



Then his outer skin begins to split along the middle of the back,

showing the pale-green Cicada within. Presently the head is free; then

the sucker and front legs appear, and finally the hind-legs and the

rumpled wings. The whole insect is free now, except the extreme tip of

his body.



He next performs a wonderful gymnastic feat. High in the air as he is,

fixed to his old skin at one point only, he turns himself over till his

head is hanging downwards. His crumpled wings straighten out, unfurl,

and spread themselves. Then with an almost invisible movement he draws

himself up again by sheer strength, and hooks his fore-legs on to his

empty skin. This movement has released the tip of his body from its

sheath. The whole operation has taken about half an hour.



For a time the freed Cicada does not feel very strong. He must bathe in

air and sunshine before strength and colour come to his frail body.

Hanging to his cast skin by his fore-claws only, he sways at the least

breath of air, still feeble and still green. But at last the brown

tinge appears, and is soon general. Supposing him to have taken

possession of the twig at nine o’clock in the morning, the Cicada flies

away at half-past twelve, leaving his cast skin behind him. Sometimes

it hangs from the twigs for months.









III



THE CICADA’S MUSIC



The Cicada, it appears, loves singing for its own sake. Not content

with carrying an instrument called the cymbal in a cavity behind his

wings, he increases its power by means of sounding-boards under his

chest. Indeed, there is one kind of Cicada who sacrifices a great deal

in order to give full play to his musical tastes. He carries such an

enormous sounding-board that there is hardly any room left for his

vital organs, which are squeezed into a tiny corner. Assuredly one must

be passionately devoted to music thus to clear away one’s internal

organs in order to make room for a musical box!



Unfortunately the song he loves so much is extremely unattractive to

others. Nor have I yet discovered its object. It is usually suggested

that he is calling his mate; but the facts appear to contradict this

idea.



For fifteen years the Common Cicada has thrust his society upon me.

Every summer for two months I have these insects before my eyes, and

their song in my ears. I see them ranged in rows on the smooth bark of

the plane-trees, the maker of music and his mate sitting side by side.

With their suckers driven into the tree they drink, motionless. As the

sun turns they also turn round the branch with slow, sidelong steps, to

find the hottest spot. Whether drinking or moving they never cease

singing.



It seems unlikely, therefore, that they are calling their mates. You do

not spend months on end calling to some one who is at your elbow.



Indeed, I am inclined to think that the Cicada himself cannot even hear

the song he sings with so much apparent delight. This might account for

the relentless way in which he forces his music upon others.



He has very clear sight. His five eyes tell him what is happening to

right and to left and above his head; and the moment he sees any one

coming he is silent and flies away. Yet no noise disturbs him. Place

yourself behind him, and then talk, whistle, clap your hands, and knock

two stones together. For much less than this a bird, though he would

not see you, would fly away terrified. The imperturbable Cicada goes on

rattling as though nothing were there.



On one occasion I borrowed the local artillery, that is to say the guns

that are fired on feast-days in the village. There were two of them,

and they were crammed with powder as though for the most important

rejoicings. They were placed at the foot of the plane-trees in front of

my door. We were careful to leave the windows open, to prevent the

panes from breaking. The Cicadæ in the branches overhead could not see

what was happening.



Six of us waited below, eager to hear what would be the effect on the

orchestra above.



Bang! The gun went off with a noise like a thunderclap.



Quite unconcerned, the Cicadæ continued to sing. Not one appeared in

the least disturbed. There was no change whatever in the quality or the

quantity of the sound. The second gun had no more effect than the

first.



I think, after this experiment, we must admit that the Cicada is hard

of hearing, and like a very deaf man, is quite unconscious that he is

making a noise.









IV



THE CICADA’S EGGS



The Common Cicada likes to lay her eggs on small dry branches. She

chooses, as far as possible, tiny stalks, which may be of any size

between that of a straw and a lead-pencil. The sprig is never lying on

the ground, is usually nearly upright in position, and is almost always

dead.



Having found a twig to suit her, she makes a row of pricks with the

sharp instrument on her chest—such pricks as might be made with a pin

if it were driven downwards on a slant, so as to tear the fibres and

force them slightly upwards. If she is undisturbed she will make thirty

or forty of these pricks on the same twig.



In the tiny cells formed by these pricks she lays her eggs. The cells

are narrow passages, each one slanting down towards the one below it. I

generally find about ten eggs in each cell, so it is plain that the

Cicada lays between three and four hundred eggs altogether.



This is a fine family for one insect. The numbers point to some special

danger that threatens the Cicada, and makes it necessary to produce a

great quantity of grubs lest some should be destroyed. After many

observations I have discovered what this danger is. It is an extremely

tiny Gnat, compared with which the Cicada is a monster.



This Gnat, like the Cicada, carries a boring-tool. It is planted

beneath her body, near the middle, and sticks out at right angles. As

fast as the Cicada lays her eggs the Gnat tries to destroy them. It is

a real scourge to the Cicada family. It is amazing to watch her calm

and brazen audacity in the presence of the giant who could crush her by

simply stepping on her. I have seen as many as three preparing to

despoil one unhappy Cicada at the same time, standing close behind one

another.



The Cicada has just stocked a cell with eggs, and is climbing a little

higher to make another cell. One of the brigands runs to the spot she

has just left; and here, almost under the claws of the monster, as

calmly and fearlessly as though she were at home, the Gnat bores a

second hole above the Cicada’s eggs, and places among them an egg of

her own. By the time the Cicada flies away most of her cells have, in

this way, received a stranger’s egg, which will be the ruin of hers. A

small quick-hatching grub, one only to each cell, handsomely fed on a

dozen raw eggs, will take the place of the Cicada’s family.



This deplorable mother has learnt nothing from centuries of experience.

Her large and excellent eyes cannot fail to see the terrible felons

fluttering round her. She must know they are at her heels, and yet she

remains unmoved, and lets herself be victimised. She could easily crush

the wicked atoms, but she is incapable of altering her instincts, even

to save her family from destruction.



Through my magnifying-glass I have seen the hatching of the Cicada’s

eggs. When the grub first appears it has a marked likeness to an

extremely small fish, with large black eyes, and a curious sort of mock

fin under its body, formed of the two fore-legs joined together. This

fin has some power of movement, and helps the grub to work its way out

of the shell, and also—a much more difficult matter—out of the fibrous

stem in which it is imprisoned.



As soon as this fish-like object has made its way out of the cell it

sheds its skin. But the cast skin forms itself into a thread, by which

the grub remains fastened to the twig or stem. Here, before dropping to

the ground, it treats itself to a sun-bath, kicking about and trying

its strength, or swinging lazily at the end of its rope.



Its antennæ now are free, and wave about; its legs work their joints;

those in front open and shut their claws. I know hardly any more

curious sight than this tiny acrobat hanging by the tip of its body,

swinging at the least breath of wind, and making ready in the air for

its somersault into the world.



Sooner or later, without losing much time, it drops to the ground. The

little creature, no bigger than a Flea, has saved its tender body from

the rough earth by swinging on its cord. It has hardened itself in the

air, that luxurious eiderdown. It now plunges into the stern realities

of life.



I see a thousand dangers ahead of it. The merest breath of wind could

blow it on to the hard rock, or into the stagnant water in some deep

cart-rut, or on the sand where nothing grows, or else on a clay soil,

too tough for it to dig in.



The feeble creature needs shelter at once, and must look for an

underground refuge. The days are growing cold, and delays are fatal to

it. It must wander about in search of soft soil, and no doubt many die

before they find it.



When at last it discovers the right spot it attacks the earth with the

hooks on its fore-feet. Through the magnifying-glass I watch it

wielding its pickaxes, and raking an atom of earth to the surface. In a

few minutes a well has been scooped out. The little creature goes down

into it, buries itself, and is henceforth invisible.



The underground life of the undeveloped Cicada remains a secret. But we

know how long it remains in the earth before it comes to the surface

and becomes a full-grown Cicada. For four years it lives below the

soil. Then for about five weeks it sings in the sunshine.



Four years of hard work in the darkness, and a month of delight in the

sun—such is the Cicada’s life. We must not blame him for the noisy

triumph of his song. For four years he has dug the earth with his feet,

and then suddenly he is dressed in exquisite raiment, provided with

wings that rival the bird’s, and bathed in heat and light! What cymbals

can be loud enough to celebrate his happiness, so hardly earned, and so

very, very short?

















CHAPTER IV



THE PRAYING MANTIS





I



HER HUNTING



There is an insect of the south that is quite as interesting as the

Cicada, but much less famous, because it makes no noise. Had it been

provided with cymbals, its renown would have been greater than the

celebrated musician’s, for it is most unusual both in shape and habits.



A long time ago, in the days of ancient Greece, this insect was named

Mantis, or the Prophet. The peasant saw her on the sun-scorched grass,

standing half-erect in a very imposing and majestic manner, with her

broad green gossamer wings trailing like long veils, and her fore-legs,

like arms, raised to the sky as though in prayer. To the peasant’s

ignorance the insect seemed like a priestess or a nun, and so she came

to be called the Praying Mantis.



There was never a greater mistake! Those pious airs are a fraud; those

arms raised in prayer are really the most horrible weapons, which slay

whatever passes within reach. The Mantis is fierce as a tigress, cruel

as an ogress. She feeds only on living creatures.



There is nothing in her appearance to inspire dread. She is not without

a certain beauty, with her slender, graceful figure, her pale-green

colouring, and her long gauze wings. Having a flexible neck, she can

move her head freely in all directions. She is the only insect that can

direct her gaze wherever she will. She almost has a face.



Great is the contrast between this peaceful-looking body and the

murderous machinery of the fore-legs. The haunch is very long and

powerful, while the thigh is even longer, and carries on its lower

surface two rows of sharp spikes or teeth. Behind these teeth are three

spurs. In short, the thigh is a saw with two blades, between which the

leg lies when folded back.



This leg itself is also a double-edged saw, provided with a greater

number of teeth than the thigh. It ends in a strong hook with a point

as sharp as a needle, and a double blade like a curved pruning-knife. I

have many painful memories of this hook. Many a time, when

Mantis-hunting, I have been clawed by the insect and forced to ask

somebody else to release me. No insect in this part of the world is so

troublesome to handle. The Mantis claws you with her pruning-hooks,

pricks you with her spikes, seizes you in her vice, and makes

self-defence impossible if you wish to keep your captive alive.



When at rest, the trap is folded back against the chest and looks quite

harmless. There you have the insect praying. But if a victim passes by,

the appearance of prayer is quickly dropped. The three long divisions

of the trap are suddenly unfolded, and the prey is caught with the

sharp hook at the end of them, and drawn back between the two saws.

Then the vice closes, and all is over. Locusts, Grasshoppers, and even

stronger insects are helpless against the four rows of teeth.



It is impossible to make a complete study of the habits of the Mantis

in the open fields, so I am obliged to take her indoors. She can live

quite happily in a pan filled with sand and covered with a gauze

dish-cover, if only she be supplied with plenty of fresh food. In order

to find out what can be done by the strength and daring of the Mantis,

I provide her not only with Locusts and Grasshoppers, but also with the

largest Spiders of the neighbourhood. This is what I see.



A grey Locust, heedless of danger, walks towards the Mantis. The latter

gives a convulsive shiver, and suddenly, in the most surprising way,

strikes an attitude that fills the Locust with terror, and is quite

enough to startle any one. You see before you unexpectedly a sort of

bogy-man or Jack-in-the-box. The wing-covers open; the wings spread to

their full extent and stand erect like sails, towering over the

insect’s back; the tip of the body curls up like a crook, rising and

falling with short jerks, and making a sound like the puffing of a

startled Adder. Planted defiantly on its four hind-legs, the Mantis

holds the front part of its body almost upright. The murderous legs

open wide, and show a pattern of black-and-white spots beneath them.



In this strange attitude the Mantis stands motionless, with eyes fixed

on her prey. If the Locust moves, the Mantis turns her head. The object

of this performance is plain. It is intended to strike terror into the

heart of the victim, to paralyse it with fright before attacking it.

The Mantis is pretending to be a ghost!



The plan is quite successful. The Locust sees a spectre before him, and

gazes at it without moving. He to whom leaping is so easy makes no

attempt at escape. He stays stupidly where he is, or even draws nearer

with a leisurely step.



As soon as he is within reach of the Mantis she strikes with her claws;

her double saws close and clutch; the poor wretch protests in vain; the

cruel ogress begins her meal.



The pretty Crab Spider stabs her victim in the neck, in order to poison

it and make it helpless. In the same way the Mantis attacks the Locust

first at the back of the neck, to destroy its power of movement. This

enables her to kill and eat an insect as big as herself, or even

bigger. It is amazing that the greedy creature can contain so much

food.



The various Digger-wasps receive visits from her pretty frequently.

Posted near the burrows on a bramble, she waits for chance to bring

near her a double prize, the Hunting-wasp and the prey she is bringing

home. For a long time she waits in vain; for the Wasp is suspicious and

on her guard: still, now and then a rash one is caught. With a sudden

rustle of wings the Mantis terrifies the new-comer, who hesitates for a

moment in her fright. Then, with the sharpness of a spring, the Wasp is

fixed as in a trap between the blades of the double saw—the toothed

fore-arm and toothed upper-arm of the Mantis. The victim is then gnawed

in small mouthfuls.



I once saw a Bee-eating Wasp, while carrying a Bee to her storehouse,

attacked and caught by a Mantis. The Wasp was in the act of eating the

honey she had found in the Bee’s crop. The double saw of the Mantis

closed suddenly on the feasting Wasp; but neither terror nor torture

could persuade that greedy creature to leave off eating. Even while she

was herself being actually devoured she continued to lick the honey

from her Bee!



I regret to say that the meals of this savage ogress are not confined

to other kinds of insects. For all her sanctimonious airs she is a

cannibal. She will eat her sister as calmly as though she were a

Grasshopper; and those around her will make no protest, being quite

ready to do the same on the first opportunity. Indeed, she even makes a

habit of devouring her mate, whom she seizes by the neck and then

swallows by little mouthfuls, leaving only the wings.



She is worse than the Wolf; for it is said that even Wolves never eat

each other.









II



HER NEST



After all, however, the Mantis has her good points, like most people.

She makes a most marvellous nest.



This nest is to be found more or less everywhere in sunny places: on

stones, wood, vine-stocks, twigs, or dry grass, and even on such things

as bits of brick, strips of linen, or the shrivelled leather of an old

boot. Any support will serve, as long as there is an uneven surface to

form a solid foundation.



In size the nest is between one and two inches long, and less than an

inch wide; and its colour is as golden as a grain of wheat. It is made

of a frothy substance, which has become solid and hard, and it smells

like silk when it is burnt. The shape of it varies according to the

support on which it is based, but in all cases the upper surface is

convex. One can distinguish three bands, or zones, of which the middle

one is made of little plates or scales, arranged in pairs and

overlapping like the tiles of a roof. The edges of these plates are

free, forming two rows of slits or little doorways, through which the

young Mantis escapes at the moment of hatching. In every other part the

wall of the nest is impenetrable.



The eggs are arranged in layers, with the ends containing the heads

pointed towards the doorways. Of these doorways, as I have just said,

there are two rows. One half of the grubs will go out through the right

door, and the other half through the left.



It is a remarkable fact that the mother Mantis builds this

cleverly-made nest while she is actually laying her eggs. From her body

she produces a sticky substance, rather like the Caterpillar’s

silk-fluid; and this material she mixes with the air and whips into

froth. She beats it into foam with two ladles that she has at the tip

of her body, just as we beat white of egg with a fork. The foam is

greyish-white, almost like soapsuds, and when it first appears it is

sticky; but two minutes afterwards it has solidified.



In this sea of foam the Mantis deposits her eggs. As each layer of eggs

is laid, it is covered with froth, which quickly becomes solid.



In a new nest the belt of exit-doors is coated with a material that

seems different from the rest—a layer of fine porous matter, of a pure,

dull, almost chalky white, which contrasts with the dirty white of the

remainder of the nest. It is like the mixture that confectioners make

of whipped white of egg, sugar, and starch, with which to ornament

their cakes. This snowy covering is very easily crumbled and removed.

When it is gone the exit-belt is clearly visible, with its two rows of

plates. The wind and rain sooner or later remove it in strips or

flakes, and therefore the old nests show no traces of it.



But these two materials, though they appear different, are really only

two forms of the same matter. The Mantis with her ladles sweeps the

surface of the foam, skimming the top of the froth, and collecting it

into a band along the back of the nest. The ribbon that looks like

sugar-icing is merely the thinnest and lightest portion of the sticky

spray, which appears whiter than the nest because its bubbles are more

delicate, and reflect more light.



It is truly a wonderful piece of machinery that can, so methodically

and swiftly, produce the horny central substance on which the first

eggs are laid, the eggs themselves, the protecting froth, the soft

sugar-like covering of the doorways, and at the same time can build

overlapping plates, and the narrow passages leading to them! Yet the

Mantis, while she is doing all this, hangs motionless on the foundation

of the nest. She gives not a glance at the building that is rising

behind her. Her legs act no part in the affair. The machinery works by

itself.



As soon as she has done her work the mother withdraws. I expected to

see her return and show some tender feeling for the cradle of her

family, but it evidently has no further interest for her.



The Mantis, I fear, has no heart. She eats her husband, and deserts her

children.









III



THE HATCHING OF HER EGGS



The eggs of the Mantis usually hatch in bright sunshine, at about ten

o’clock on a mid-June morning.



As I have already told you, there is only one part of the nest from

which the grub can find an outlet, namely the band of scales round the

middle. From under each of these scales one sees slowly appearing a

blunt, transparent lump, followed by two large black specks, which are

the creature’s eyes. The baby grub slips gently under the thin plate

and half releases itself. It is reddish yellow, and has a thick,

swollen head. Under its outer skin it is quite easy to distinguish the

large black eyes, the mouth flattened against the chest, the legs

plastered to the body from front to back. With the exception of these

legs the whole thing reminds one somewhat of the first state of the

Cicada on leaving the egg.



Like the Cicada, the young Mantis finds it necessary to wear an overall

when it is coming into the world, for the sake of convenience and

safety. It has to emerge from the depths of the nest through narrow,

winding ways, in which full-spread slender limbs could not find enough

room. The tall stilts, the murderous harpoons, the delicate antennæ,

would hinder its passage, and indeed make it impossible. The creature

therefore appears in swaddling-clothes, and has the shape of a boat.



When the grub peeps out under the thin scales of its nest its head

becomes bigger and bigger, till it looks like a throbbing blister. The

little creature alternately pushes forward and draws back, in its

efforts to free itself, and at each movement the head grows larger. At

last the outer skin bursts at the upper part of the chest, and the grub

wriggles and tugs and bends about, determined to throw off its overall.

Finally the legs and the long antennæ are freed, and a few shakes

complete the operation.



It is a striking sight to see a hundred young Mantes coming from the

nest at once. Hardly does one tiny creature show its black eyes under a

scale before a swarm of others appears. It is as though a signal passed

from one to the other, so swiftly does the hatching spread. Almost in a

moment the middle zone of the nest is covered with grubs, who run about

feverishly, stripping themselves of their torn garments. Then they drop

off, or clamber into the nearest foliage. A few days later a fresh

swarm appears, and so on till all the eggs are hatched.



But alas! the poor grubs are hatched into a world of dangers. I have

seen them hatching many times, both out of doors in my enclosure, and

in the seclusion of a greenhouse, where I hoped I should be better able

to protect them. Twenty times at least I have watched the scene, and

every time the slaughter of the grubs has been terrible. The Mantis

lays many eggs, but she will never lay enough to cope with the hungry

murderers who lie in wait until the grubs appear.



The Ants, above all, are their enemies. Every day I find them visiting

my nests. It is in vain for me to interfere; they always get the better

of me. They seldom succeed in entering the nest; its hard walls form

too strong a fortress. But they wait outside for their prey.



The moment that the young grubs appear they are grabbed by the Ants,

pulled out of their sheaths, and cut in pieces. You see piteous

struggles between the little creatures who can only protest with wild

wrigglings and the ferocious brigands who are carrying them off. In a

moment the massacre is over; all that is left of the flourishing family

is a few scattered survivors who have escaped by accident.



It is curious that the Mantis, the scourge of the insect race, should

be herself so often devoured at this early stage of her life, by one of

the least of that race, the Ant. The ogress sees her family eaten by

the dwarf. But this does not continue long. So soon as she has become

firm and strong from contact with the air the Mantis can hold her own.

She trots about briskly among the Ants, who fall back as she passes, no

longer daring to tackle her: with her fore-legs brought close to her

chest, like arms ready for self-defence, she already strikes awe into

them by her proud bearing.



But the Mantis has another enemy who is less easily dismayed. The

little Grey Lizard, the lover of sunny walls, pays small heed to

threatening attitudes. With the tip of his slender tongue he picks up,

one by one, the few stray insects that have escaped the Ant. They make

but a small mouthful, but to judge from the Lizard’s expression they

taste very good. Every time he gulps down one of the little creatures

he half-closes his eyelids, a sign of profound satisfaction.



Moreover, even before the hatching the eggs are in danger. There is a

tiny insect called the Chalcis, who carries a probe sharp enough to

penetrate the nest of solidified foam. So the brood of the Mantis

shares the fate of the Cicada’s. The eggs of a stranger are laid in the

nest, and are hatched before those of the rightful owner. The owner’s

eggs are then eaten by the invaders. The Mantis lays, perhaps, a

thousand eggs. Possibly only one couple of these escapes destruction.



The Mantis eats the Locust: the Ant eats the Mantis: the Wryneck eats

the Ant. And in the autumn, when the Wryneck has grown fat from eating

many Ants, I eat the Wryneck.



It may well be that the Mantis, the Locust, the Ant, and even lesser

creatures contribute to the strength of the human brain. In strange and

unseen ways they have all supplied a drop of oil to feed the lamp of

thought. Their energies, slowly developed, stored up, and handed on to

us, pass into our veins and sustain our weakness. We live by their

death. The world is an endless circle. Everything finishes so that

everything may begin again; everything dies so that everything may

live.



In many ages the Mantis has been regarded with superstitious awe. In

Provence its nest is held to be the best remedy for chilblains. You cut

the thing in two, squeeze it, and rub the afflicted part with the juice

that streams out of it. The peasants declare that it works like a

charm. I have never felt any relief from it myself.



Further, it is highly praised as a wonderful cure for toothache. As

long as you have it on you, you need never fear that trouble. Our

housewives gather it under a favourable moon; they keep it carefully in

the corner of a cupboard, or sew it into their pocket. The neighbours

borrow it when tortured by a tooth. They call it a tigno.



“Lend me your tigno; I am in agony,” says the sufferer with the swollen

face.



The other hastens to unstitch and hand over the precious thing.



“Don’t lose it, whatever you do,” she says earnestly to her friend.

“It’s the only one I have, and this isn’t the right time of moon.”



This simplicity of our peasants is surpassed by an English physician

and man of science who lived in the sixteenth century. He tells us

that, in those days, if a child lost his way in the country, he would

ask the Mantis to put him on his road. “The Mantis,” adds the author,

“will stretch out one of her feet and shew him the right way and

seldome or never misse.”

















CHAPTER V



THE GLOW-WORM





I



HIS SURGICAL INSTRUMENT



Few insects enjoy more fame than the Glow-worm, the curious little

animal who celebrates the joy of life by lighting a lantern at its

tail-end. We all know it, at least by name, even if we have not seen it

roaming through the grass, like a spark fallen from the full moon. The

Greeks of old called it the Bright-tailed, and modern science gives it

the name Lampyris.



As a matter of fact the Lampyris is not a worm at all, not even in

general appearance. He has six short legs, which he well knows how to

use, for he is a real gad-about. The male, when he is full-grown has

wing-cases, like the true Beetle that he is. The female is an

unattractive creature who knows nothing of the delights of flying and

all her life remains in the larva, or incomplete form. Even at this

stage the word “worm” is out of place. We French use the phrase “naked

as a worm” to express the lack of any kind of protection. Now the

Lampyris is clothed, that is to say he wears an outer skin that serves

as a defence; and he is, moreover, rather richly coloured. He is dark

brown, with pale pink on the chest; and each segment, or division, of

his body is ornamented at the edge with two spots of fairly bright red.

A costume like this was never worn by a worm!



Nevertheless we will continue to call him the Glow-worm, since it is by

that name that he is best known to the world.



The two most interesting peculiarities about the Glow-worm are, first,

the way he secures his food, and secondly, the lantern at his tail.



A famous Frenchman, a master of the science of food, once said:



“Show me what you eat, and I will tell you what you are.”



A similar question should be addressed to every insect whose habits we

propose to study; for the information supplied by food is the chief of

all the documents of animal life. Well, in spite of his innocent

appearance, the Glow-worm is an eater of flesh, a hunter of game; and

he carries on his hunting with rare villainy. His regular prey is the

Snail. This fact has long been known; but what is not so well known is

his curious method of attack, of which I have seen no other example

anywhere.



Before he begins to feed on his victim he gives it an anæsthetic—he

makes it unconscious, as a person is made unconscious with chloroform

before a surgical operation. His food, as a rule, is a certain small

Snail hardly the size of a cherry, which collects in clusters during

the hot weather, on the stiff stubble and other dry stalks by the

roadside, and there remains motionless, in profound meditation,

throughout the scorching summer days. In some such place as this I have

often seen the Glow-worm feasting on his unconscious prey, which he had

just paralysed on its shaky support.



But he frequents other places too. At the edge of cool, damp ditches,

where the vegetation is varied, many Snails are to be found; and in

such spots as these the Glow-worm can kill his victim on the ground. I

can reproduce these conditions at home, and can there follow the

operator’s performance down to the smallest detail.



I will try to describe the strange sight. I place a little grass in a

wide glass jar. In this I install a few Glow-worms and a supply of

Snails of a suitable size, neither too large nor too small. One must be

patient and wait, and above all keep a careful watch, for the events

take place unexpectedly and do not last long.



For a moment the Glow-worm examines his prey, which, according to its

habit, is completely hidden in the shell, except for the edge of the

“mantle,” which projects slightly. Then the hunter draws his weapon. It

is a very simple weapon, but it cannot be seen without a

magnifying-glass. It consists of two mandibles, bent back into a hook,

very sharp and as thin as a hair. Through the microscope one can see a

slender groove running down the hook. And that is all.



The insect repeatedly taps the Snail’s mantle with its instrument. It

all happens with such gentleness as to suggest kisses rather than

bites. As children, teasing one another, we used to talk of “tweaks” to

express a slight squeeze of the finger-tips, something more like

tickling than a serious pinch. Let us use that word. In conversation

with animals, language loses nothing by remaining simple. The Glow-worm

gives tweaks to the Snail.



He doles them out methodically, without hurrying, and takes a brief

rest after each of them, as though to find out what effect has been

produced. The number of tweaks is not great: half a dozen at most,

which are enough to make the Snail motionless, and to rob him of all

feeling. That other pinches are administered later, at the time of

eating, seems very likely, but I cannot say anything for certain on

that subject. The first few, however—there are never many—are enough to

prevent the Snail from feeling anything, thanks to the promptitude of

the Glow-worm, who, at lightning speed, darts some kind of poison into

his victim by means of his grooved hooks.



There is no doubt at all that the Snail is made insensible to pain. If,

when the Glow-worm has dealt some four or five of his twitches, I take

away the victim and prick it with a fine needle, there is not a quiver

in the wounded flesh, there is not the smallest sign of life. Moreover,

I occasionally chance to see Snails attacked by the Lampyris while they

are creeping along the ground, the foot slowly crawling, the tentacles

swollen to their full extent. A few disordered movements betray a brief

excitement on the part of the Snail, and then everything ceases: the

foot no longer crawls, the front-part loses its graceful curve, the

tentacles become limp and give way under their own weight, dangling

feebly like a broken stick. The Snail, to all appearance, is dead.



He is not, however, really dead. I can bring him to life again. When he

has been for two or three days in a condition that is neither life nor

death I give him a shower-bath. In about a couple of days my prisoner,

so lately injured by the Glow-worm’s treachery, is restored to his

usual state. He revives, he recovers movement and sensibility. He is

affected by the touch of a needle; he shifts his place, crawls, puts

out his tentacles, as though nothing unusual had occurred. The general

torpor, a sort of deep drunkenness, has vanished outright. The dead

returns to life.



Human science did not invent the art of making a person insensible to

pain, which is one of the triumphs of surgery. Far back in the

centuries the Glow-worm, and apparently others too, was practising it.

The surgeon makes us breathe the fumes of ether or chloroform: the

insect darts forth from his fangs very tiny doses of a special poison.



When we consider the harmless and peaceful nature of the Snail it seems

curious that the Glow-worm should require this remarkable talent. But I

think I know the reason.



When the Snail is on the ground, creeping, or even shrunk into his

shell, the attack never presents any difficulty. The shell possesses no

lid and leaves the hermit’s fore-part to a great extent exposed. But it

very often happens that he is in a raised position, clinging to the tip

of a grass-stalk, or perhaps to the smooth surface of a stone. This

support to which he fastens himself serves very well as a protection;

it acts as a lid, supposing that the shell fits closely on the stone or

stalk. But if the least bit of the Snail be left uncovered the slender

hooks of the Glow-worm can find their way in through the gap, and in a

moment the victim is made unconscious, and can be eaten in comfort.



Now, a Snail perched on top of a stalk is very easily upset. The

slightest struggle, the most feeble wriggle on his part, would dislodge

him; he would fall to the ground, and the Glow-worm would be left

without food. It is necessary for the Snail to be made instantly

unconscious of pain, or he would escape; and it must be done with a

touch so delicate that it does not shake him from his stalk. And that,

I think, is why the Glow-worm possesses his strange surgical

instrument.









II



HIS ROSETTE



The Glow-worm not only makes his victim insensible while he is poised

on the side of a dry grass-stalk, but he eats him in the same dangerous

position. And his preparations for his meal are by no means simple.



What is his manner of consuming it? Does he really eat, that is to say,

does he divide his food into pieces, does he carve it into minute

particles, which are afterwards ground by a chewing-apparatus? I think

not. I never see a trace of solid nourishment on my captives’ mouths.

The Glow-worm does not eat in the strict sense of the word; he merely

drinks. He feeds on a thin gruel, into which he transforms his prey.

Like the flesh-eating grub of the Fly, he can digest his food before he

swallows it; he turns his prey into liquid before feeding on it.



This is how things happen. A Snail has been made insensible by a

Glow-worm, who is nearly always alone, even when the prize is a large

one like the Common Snail. Soon a number of guests hasten up—two,

three, or more—and, without any quarrel with the real owner, all alike

fall to. A couple of days later, if I turn the shell so that the

opening is downwards, the contents flow out like soup from a saucepan.

By the time the meal is finished only insignificant remains are left.



The matter is obvious. By repeated tiny bites, similar to the tweaks

which we saw administered at the beginning, the flesh of the Snail is

converted into a gruel on which the various guests nourish themselves

each in his own way, each working at the broth by means of some special

pepsine (or digestive fluid), and each taking his own mouthfuls of it.

The use of this method shows that the Glow-worm’s mouth must be very

feebly armed, apart from the two fangs which sting the patient and

inject the poison. No doubt these fangs at the same time inject some

other substance which turns the solid flesh into liquid, in such a

thorough way that every morsel is turned to account.



And this is done with exquisite delicacy, though sometimes in a

position that is anything but steady. The Snails imprisoned in my

apparatus sometimes crawl up to the top, which is closed with a glass

pane. To this pane they fix themselves with a speck of the sticky

substance they carry with them; but, as they are miserly in their use

of this substance, the merest shake is enough to loosen the shell and

send it to the bottom of the jar.



Now it is not unusual for the Glow-worm to hoist himself to the top,

with the help of a certain climbing-organ that makes up for the

weakness of his legs. He selects his prey, makes a careful inspection

of it to find a slit, nibbles it a little, makes it insensible, and

then, without delay, proceeds to prepare the gruel which he will go on

eating for days on end.



When he has finished his meal the shell is found to be absolutely

empty. And yet this shell, which was fixed to the glass only by the

slight smear of stickiness, has not come loose, nor even shifted its

position in the smallest degree. Without any protest from the hermit

who has been gradually converted into broth, it has been drained dry on

the very spot at which the first attack was made. These small details

show us how promptly the anæsthetic bite takes effect, and how very

skilfully the Glow-worm treats his Snail.



To do all this, poised high in air on a sheet of glass or a grass-stem,

the Glow-worm must have some special limb or organ to keep him from

slipping. It is plain that his short clumsy legs are not enough.



Through the magnifying-glass we can see that he does indeed possess a

special organ of this kind. Beneath his body, towards the tail, there

is a white spot. The glass shows that this is composed of about a dozen

short, fleshy little tubes, or stumpy fingers, which are sometimes

gathered into a cluster, sometimes spread into a rosette. This bunch of

little fingers helps the Glow-worm to stick to a smooth surface, and

also to climb. If he wishes to fix himself to a pane of glass or a

stalk he opens his rosette, and spreads it wide on the support, to

which it clings by its own natural stickiness. And by opening and

shutting alternately it helps him to creep along and to climb.



The little fingers that form this rosette are not jointed, but are able

to move in all directions. Indeed they are more like tubes than

fingers, for they cannot seize anything, they can only hold on by their

stickiness. They are very useful, however, for they have a third

purpose, besides their powers of clinging and climbing. They are used

as a sponge and brush. At a moment of rest, after a meal, the Glow-worm

passes and repasses this brush over his head and sides and his whole

body, a performance made possible by the flexibility of his spine. This

is done point by point, from one end of the body to the other, with a

scrupulous care that proves the great interest he takes in the

operation. At first one may wonder why he should dust and polish

himself so carefully. But no doubt, by the time he has turned the Snail

into gruel inside the shell and has then spent several days in eating

the result of his labours, a wash and brush-up is not amiss.









III



HIS LAMP



If the Glow-worm possessed no other talent than that of chloroforming

his prey by means of a few tweaks as gentle as kisses, he would be

unknown to the world in general. But he also knows how to light himself

like a lantern. He shines; which is an excellent manner of becoming

famous.



In the case of the female Glow-worm the lighting-apparatus occupies the

last three divisions of the body. On each of the first two it takes the

form, on the under surface, of a wide belt of light; on the third

division or segment the bright part is much smaller, and consists only

of two spots, which shine through the back, and are visible both above

and below the animal. From these belts and spots there comes a glorious

white light, delicately tinged with blue.



The male Glow-worm carries only the smaller of these lamps, the two

spots on the end segment, which are possessed by the entire tribe.

These luminous spots appear upon the young grub, and continue

throughout life unchanged. And they are always visible both on the

upper and lower surface, whereas the two large belts peculiar to the

female shine only below the body.



I have examined the shining belt under the microscope. On the skin a

sort of whitewash is spread, formed of some very fine grain-like

substance, which is the source of the light. Close beside it is a

curious air-tube, with a short wide stem leading to a kind of bushy

tuft of delicate branches. These branches spread over the sheet of

shining matter, and sometimes dip into it.



It is plain to me that the brightness is produced by the

breathing-organs of the Glow-worm. There are certain substances which,

when mixed with air, become luminous or even burst into flame. Such

substances are called combustible, and the act of their producing light

or flame by mingling with the air is called oxidisation. The lamp of

the Glow-worm is the result of oxidisation. The substance that looks

like whitewash is the matter that is oxidised, and the air is supplied

by the tube connected with the Glow-worm’s breathing-organs. But as to

the nature of the shining substance, no one as yet knows anything.



We are better informed as regards another question. We know that the

Glow-worm has complete control of the light he carries. He can turn it

up or down, or out, as he pleases.



If the flow of air through the tube be increased, the light becomes

more intense: if the same air-tube, influenced by the will of the

animal, stops the passage of air, the light grows fainter or even goes

out.



Excitement produces an effect upon the air-tube. I am speaking now of

the modest fairy-lamp, the spots on the last segment of the Glow-worm’s

body. These are suddenly and almost completely put out by any kind of

flurry. When I am hunting for young Glow-worms I can plainly see them

glimmering on the blades of grass; but should the least false step

disturb a neighbouring twig, the light goes out at once and the insect

becomes invisible.



The gorgeous belts of the females, however, are very little, if at all,

affected by even the most violent surprise. I fire a gun, for instance,

beside a wire-gauze cage in which I am rearing a menagerie of female

Glow-worms in the open air. The explosion produces no result: the

illumination continues, as bright and placid as before. I take a spray,

and rain down a slight shower of cold water upon the flock. Not one of

my animals puts out its light; at the very most there is a brief pause

in the radiance, and then only in some cases. I send a puff of smoke

from my pipe into the cage. This time the pause is more marked. There

are even some lamps put out, but they are soon relit. Calm returns, and

the light is as bright as ever. I take some of the captives in my

fingers and tease them a little. Yet the illumination is not much

dimmed, if I do not press too hard with my thumb. Nothing short of very

serious reasons would make the insect put out its signals altogether.



All things considered, there is not a doubt but that the Glow-worm

himself manages his lighting-apparatus, extinguishing and rekindling it

at will; but there is one circumstance over which the insect has no

control. If I cut off a strip of the skin, showing one of the luminous

belts, and place it in a glass tube, it will shine away merrily, though

not quite as brilliantly as on the living body. The presence of life is

unnecessary, because the luminous skin is in direct contact with the

air, and the flow of oxygen through the air-tube is therefore not

required. In aerated water the skin shines as brightly as in the free

air, but the light is extinguished in water that has been deprived of

its air by boiling. There could be no better proof that the Glow-worm’s

light is the effect of oxidisation.



The light is white, calm, and soft to the eyes, and suggests a spark

dropped by the full moon. In spite of its splendour it is very feeble.

If we move a Glow-worm along a line of print, in perfect darkness, we

can easily make out the letters one by one, and even words when they

are not too long; but nothing is visible beyond this very narrow zone.

A lantern of this kind soon tires the reader’s patience.



These brilliant creatures know nothing at all of family affection. They

lay their eggs anywhere, or rather strew them at random, either on the

earth or on a blade of grass. Then they pay no further attention to

them.



From start to finish the Glow-worm shines. Even the eggs are luminous,

and so are the grubs. At the approach of cold weather the latter go

down into the ground, but not very far. If I dig them up I find them

with their little stern-lights still shining. Even below the soil they

keep their lanterns bravely alight.

















CHAPTER VI



A MASON-WASP





I



HER CHOICE OF A BUILDING-SITE



Of the various insects that like to make their home in our houses,

certainly the most interesting, for her beautiful shape, her curious

manners, and her wonderful nest, is a certain Wasp called the Pelopæus.

She is very little known, even to the people by whose fireside she

lives. This is owing to her quiet, peaceful ways; she is so very

retiring that her host is nearly always ignorant of her presence. It is

easy for noisy, tiresome, unpleasant persons to make themselves famous.

I will try to rescue this modest creature from her obscurity.



The Pelopæus is an extremely chilly mortal. She pitches her tent under

the kindly sun that ripens the olive and prompts the Cicada’s song; and

even then she needs for her family the additional warmth to be found in

our dwellings. Her usual refuge is the peasant’s lonely cottage, with

its old fig-tree shading the well in front of the door. She chooses one

exposed to all the heat of summers, and if possible possessing a big

fireplace in which a fire of sticks always burns. The cheerful blaze on

winter evenings has a great influence upon her choice, for she knows by

the blackness of the chimney that the spot is a likely one. A chimney

that is not well glazed by smoke gives her no confidence: people must

shiver with cold in that house.



During the dog-days in July and August the visitor suddenly appears,

seeking a place for her nest. She is not in the least disturbed by the

bustle and movement of the household: they take no notice of her nor

she of them. She examines—now with her sharp eyes, now with her

sensitive antennæ—the corners of the blackened ceiling, the rafters,

the chimney-piece, the sides of the fireplace especially, and even the

inside of the flue. Having finished her inspection and duly approved of

the site she flies away, soon to return with the pellet of mud which

will form the first layer of the building.



The spot she chooses varies greatly, and often it is a very curious

one. The temperature of a furnace appears to suit the young Pelopæus:

at least the favourite site is the chimney, on either side of the flue,

up to a height of twenty inches or so. This snug shelter has its

drawbacks. The smoke gets to the nests, and gives them a glaze of brown

or black like that which covers the stonework. They might easily be

taken for inequalities in the mortar. This is not a serious matter,

provided that the flames do not lick against the nests. That would stew

the young Wasps to death in their clay pots. But the mother Wasps seems

to understand this: she only places her family in chimneys that are too

wide for anything but smoke to reach their sides.



But in spite of all her caution one danger remains. It sometimes

happens, while the Wasp is building, that the approach to the

half-built dwelling is barred to her for a time, or even for the whole

day, by a curtain of steam or smoke. Washing-days are most risky. From

morning till night the housewife keeps the huge cauldron boiling. The

smoke from the hearth, the steam from the cauldron and the wash-tub,

form a dense mist in front of the fireplace.



It is told of the Water-Ouzel that, to get back to his nest, he will

fly through the cataract under a mill-weir. This Wasp is even more

daring: with her pellet of mud in her teeth she crosses the cloud of

smoke and disappears behind it, where she becomes invisible, so thick

is the screen. An irregular chirring sound, the song she sings at her

work, alone betrays her presence. The building goes on mysteriously

behind the cloud. The song ceases, and the Wasp flies back through the

steam, quite unharmed. She will face this danger repeatedly all day,

until the cell is built, stored with food, and closed.



Once and once only I was able to observe a Pelopæus at my own fireside;

and, as it happened, it was a washing-day. I had not long been

appointed to the Avignon grammar-school. It was close upon two o’clock,

and in a few minutes the roll of the drum would summon me to give a

scientific lecture to an audience of wool-gatherers. Suddenly I saw a

strange, agile insect dart through the steam that rose from the

wash-tub. The front part of its body was very thin, and the back part

was very plump, and the two parts were joined together by a long

thread. It was the Pelopæus, the first I had seen with observant eyes.



Being very anxious to become better acquainted with my visitor, I

fervently entreated the household not to disturb her in my absence.

Things went better than I dared hope. On my return she was still

carrying on her mason’s work behind the steam. Being eager to see the

building of the cells, the nature of the provisions, and the evolution

of the young Wasps, I raked the fire so as to decrease the volume of

smoke, and for a good two hours I watched the mother Wasp diving

through the cloud.



Never again, in the forty years that followed, was my fireplace

honoured with such a visit. All the further information I have gathered

was gleaned on the hearths of my neighbours.



The Pelopæus, it appears, is of a solitary and vagrant disposition. She

nearly always builds a lonely nest, and unlike many Wasps and Bees, she

seldom founds her family at the spot where she was reared herself. She

is often found in our southern towns, but on the whole she prefers the

peasant’s smoky house to the townsman’s white villa. Nowhere have I

seen her so plentiful as in my village, with its tumble-down cottages

burnt yellow by the sun.



It is obvious that this Wasp, when she so often chooses the chimney as

her abode, is not seeking her own comfort: the site means work, and

dangerous work. She seeks the welfare of her family. This family, then,

must require a high temperature, such as other Wasps and Bees do not

need.



I have seen a Pelopæus nest in the engine-room of a silk-factory, fixed

to the ceiling just above the huge boiler. At this spot the thermometer

marked 120 degrees all through the year, except at night and on

holidays.



In a country distillery I have found many nests, fixed on anything that

came to hand, even a pile of account-books. The temperature of one of

these, quite close to the still, was 113 degrees. It is plain that this

Wasp cheerfully endures a degree of heat that makes the oily palm-tree

sprout.



A boiler or a furnace she regards as the ideal home, but she is quite

willing to content herself in any snug corner: a conservatory, a

kitchen-ceiling, the recess of a closed window, the wall of a cottage

bedroom. As to the foundation on which she fixes her nest, she is

entirely indifferent. As a rule she builds her groups of cells on

stonework or timber; but at various times I have seen nests inside a

gourd, in a fur cap, in the hollow of a brick, on the side of a bag of

oats, and in a piece of lead tubing.



Once I saw something more remarkable still, in a farm near Avignon. In

a large room with a very wide fireplace the soup for the farm-hands and

the food for the cattle simmered in a row of pots. The labourers used

to come in from the fields to this room, and devour their meal with the

silent haste that comes from a keen appetite. To enjoy this half-hour

comfortably they would take off their hats and smocks, and hang them on

pegs. Short though this meal was, it was long enough to allow the Wasps

to take possession of their garments. The inside of a straw hat was

recognised as a most useful building-site, the folds of a smock were

looked upon as a capital shelter; and the work of building started at

once. On rising from the table one of the men would shake his smock,

and another his hat, to rid it of the Wasp’s nest, which was already

the size of an acorn.



The cook in that farmhouse regarded the Wasps with no friendly eye.

They dirtied everything, she said. Dabs of mud on the ceiling, on the

walls, or on the chimney-piece you could put up with; but it was a very

different matter when you found them on the linen and the curtains. She

had to beat the curtains every day with a bamboo. And it was trouble

thrown away. The next morning the Wasps began building as busily as

ever.









II



HER BUILDING



I sympathised with the sorrows of that farm-cook, but greatly regretted

that I could not take her place. How gladly I would have left the Wasps

undisturbed, even if they had covered all the furniture with mud! How I

longed to know what the fate of a nest would be, if perched on the

uncertain support of a coat or a curtain! The nest of the Mason-bee is

made of hard mortar, which surrounds the twig on which it is built, and

becomes firmly fixed to it; but the nest of the Pelopæus Wasp is a mere

blob of mud, without cement or foundations.



The materials of which it is made are nothing but wet earth or dirt,

picked up wherever the soil is damp enough. The thin clay of a

river-bank is very suitable, but in my stony country streams are rare.

I can, however, watch the builders at my leisure in my own garden, when

a thin trickle of water runs all day, as it does sometimes, through the

little trenches that are cut in my vegetable plots.



The Pelopæus Wasps of the neighbourhood soon become aware of this glad

event, and come hurrying up to take advantage of the precious layer of

mud, a rare discovery in the dry season. They scrape and skim the

gleaming, shiny surface with their mandibles while standing high on

their legs, with their wings quivering and their black bodies upraised.

No neat little housewife, with skirts carefully tucked up out of the

dirt, could be more skilful in tackling a job likely to soil her

clothes. These mud-gatherers have not an atom of dirt upon them, so

careful are they to tuck up their skirts in their own fashion, that is

to say, to keep their whole body out of the way, all but the tips of

their legs and the busy points of the mandibles with which they work.



In this way a dab of mud is collected, almost the size of a pea. Taking

the load in its teeth the insect flies off, adds a layer to its

building, and soon returns to collect another pellet. The same method

is pursued as long as the earth remains sufficiently wet, during the

hottest hours of the day.



But the favourite spot is the great fountain in the village, where the

people come to water their mules. Here there is a constant sheet of

black mud which neither the hottest sunshine nor the strongest wind can

dry. This bed of mire is very unpleasant for the passers-by, but the

Pelopæus loves to gather her pellets here, amid the hoofs of the mules.



Unlike some builders in clay, such as the Mason-bees, the Wasp does not

improve the mud to make it into mortar, but uses it just as it is.

Consequently her nests are flimsy work, absolutely unfitted to stand

the changes and chances of the open air. A drop of water laid upon

their surface softens the spot touched and reduces it to mud again,

while a sprinkling equal to an average shower turns it to pap. They are

nothing but dried slime, and become slime again as soon as they are

wetted.



It is plain, then, that even if the young Pelopæus were not so chilly

by nature, a shelter is indispensable for the nests, which would go to

pieces at the first shower of rain. That is why this Wasp is so fond of

human dwellings, and especially of the chimney.



Before receiving its final coating, which covers up the details of the

building, the nest has a certain beauty of its own. It consists of a

cluster of cells, sometimes arranged side by side in a row—which makes

it look rather like a mouth-organ—but more often grouped in layers

placed one above the other. I have sometimes counted as many as fifteen

cells; some nests contain only ten; others are reduced to three or

four, or even only one.



In shape the cells are not far from cylinders, slightly larger at the

mouth than at the base. They are a little more than an inch long, and

about half an inch wide. Their delicate surface is carefully polished,

and shows a series of string-like projections, running cross-wise, not

unlike the twisted cords of some kinds of gold-lace. Each of these

strings is a layer of the building; it comes from the clod of mud used

for the coping of the part already built. By counting them you can tell

how many journeys the Wasp has made in the course of her work. There

are usually between fifteen and twenty. For one cell, therefore, the

industrious builder fetches materials something like twenty times.



The mouth of the cells is, of course, always turned upwards. A pot

cannot hold its contents if it be upside down. And the Wasp’s cell is

nothing but a pot intended to hold the store of food, a pile of small

Spiders.



The cells—built one by one, stuffed full of Spiders, and closed as the

eggs are laid—preserve their pretty appearance until the cluster is

considered large enough. Then, to strengthen her work, the Wasp covers

the whole with a casing, as a protection and defence. She lays on the

plaster without stint and without art, giving it none of the delicate

finishing-touches which she lavishes on the cells. The mud is applied

just as it is brought, and merely spread with a few careless strokes.

The beauties of the building all disappear under this ugly husk. In

this final state the nest is like a great splash of mud, flung against

the wall by accident.









III



HER PROVISIONS



Now that we know what the provision-jar is like, we must find out what

it contains.



The young Pelopæus is fed on Spiders. The food does not lack variety,

even in the same nest and the same cell, for any Spider may form a

meal, as long as it is not too large for the jar. The Cross Spider,

with three crosses of white dots on her back, is the dish that occurs

oftenest. I think the reason for this is simply that the Wasp does not

go far from home in her hunting-trips, and the Spider with the crosses

is the easiest to find.



The Spider, armed with poison-fangs, is a dangerous prey to tackle.

When of fair size, she could only be conquered by a greater amount of

daring and skill than the Wasp possesses. Moreover, the cells are too

small to hold a bulky object. The Wasp, therefore, hunts game of

moderate size. If she meets with a kind of Spider that is apt to become

plump, she always chooses a young one. But, though all are small, the

size of her victims varies enormously, and this variation in size leads

also to variation in number. One cell will contain a dozen Spiders,

while in another there are only five or six.



Another reason for her choice of small Spiders is that she kills them

before potting them in her cells. She falls suddenly upon her prey, and

carries it off almost without pausing in her flight. The skilful

paralysis practised by some insects is unknown to her. This means that

when the food is stored it soon decays. Fortunately the Spiders are

small enough to be finished at a single meal. If they were large and

could only be nibbled here and there, they would decay, and poison the

grubs in the nest.



I always find the egg, not on the surface of the heap, but on the first

Spider that was stored. There is no exception to this rule. The Wasp

places a Spider at the bottom of the cell, lays her egg upon it, and

then piles the other Spiders on the top. By this clever plan the grub

is obliged to begin on the oldest of the dead Spiders, and then go on

to the more recent. It always finds in front of it food that has not

had time to decompose.



The egg is always laid on the same part of the Spider, the end

containing the head being placed on the plumpest spot. This is very

pleasant for the grub, for the moment it is hatched it can begin eating

the tenderest and nicest food in the store. Not a mouthful is wasted,

however, by these economical creatures. When the meal is finished there

is practically nothing left of the whole heap of Spiders. This life of

gluttony lasts for eight or ten days.



The grub then sets to work to spin its cocoon, a sack of pure,

perfectly white silk, extremely delicate. Something more is required to

make this sack tough enough to be a protection, so the grub produces

from its body a sort of liquid varnish. As soon as it trickles into the

meshes of the silk this varnish hardens, and becomes a lacquer of

exquisite daintiness. The grub then fixes a hard plug at the base of

the cocoon to make all secure.



When finished, the work is amber-yellow, and rather reminds one of the

outer skin of an onion. It has the same fine texture, the same colour

and transparency; and like the onion skin it rustles when it is

fingered. From it, sooner or later according to temperature, the

perfect insect is hatched.







It is possible, while the Wasp is storing her cell, to play her a trick

which will show how purely mechanical her instincts are. A cell has

just been completed, let us suppose, and the huntress arrives with her

first Spider. She stores it away, and at once fastens her egg on the

plumpest part of its body. She sets out on a second trip. I take

advantage of her absence to remove with my tweezers from the bottom of

the cell both the dead Spider and the egg.



The disappearance of the egg must be discovered by the Wasp, one would

think, if she possesses the least gleam of intelligence. The egg is

small, it is true, but it lies on a comparatively large object, the

Spider. What will the Wasp do when she finds the cell empty? Will she

act sensibly, and repair her loss by laying a second egg? Not at all;

she behaves most absurdly.



What she does is to bring a second Spider, which she stores away with

as much cheerful zeal as if nothing unfortunate had occurred. She

brings a third and a fourth, and still others, each of whom I remove

during her absence; so that every time she returns from the chase the

storeroom is found empty. I have seen her persist obstinately for two

days in seeking to fill the insatiable jar, while my patience in

emptying it was equally unflagging. With the twentieth victim—possibly

owing to the fatigue of so many journeys—the huntress considered that

the pot was sufficiently supplied, and began most carefully to close

the cell that contained absolutely nothing.



The intelligence of insects is limited everywhere in this way. The

accidental difficulty which one insect is powerless to overcome, any

other, no matter what its species, will be equally unable to cope with.

I could give a host of similar examples to show that insects are

absolutely without reasoning power, notwithstanding the wonderful

perfection of their work. A long series of experiments has forced me to

conclude that they are neither free nor conscious in their industry.

They build, weave, hunt, stab, and paralyse their prey, in the same way

as they digest their food, or secrete the poison of their sting,

without the least understanding of the means or the end. They are, I am

convinced, completely ignorant of their own wonderful talents.



Their instinct cannot be changed. Experience does not teach it; time

does not awaken a glimmer in its unconsciousness. Pure instinct, if it

stood alone, would leave the insect powerless in the face of

circumstances. Yet circumstances are always changing, the unexpected is

always happening. In this confusion some power is needed by the

insect—as by every other creature—to teach it what to accept and what

to refuse. It requires a guide of some kind, and this guide it

certainly possesses. Intelligence is too fine a word for it: I will

call it discernment.



Is the insect conscious of what it does? Yes, and no. No, if its action

is guided by instinct. Yes, if its action is the result of discernment.



The Pelopæus, for instance, builds her cells with earth already

softened into mud. This is instinct. She has always built in this way.

Neither the passing ages nor the struggle for life will induce her to

imitate the Mason-bee and make her nest of dry dust and cement.



This mud nest of hers needs a shelter against the rain. A hiding-place

under a stone, perhaps, sufficed at first. But when she found something

better she took possession of it. She installed herself in the home of

man. This is discernment.



She supplies her young with food in the form of Spiders. This is

instinct, and nothing will ever persuade her that young Crickets are

just as good. But should there be a lack of her favourite Cross Spider

she will not leave her grubs unfed; she will bring them other Spiders.

This is discernment.



In this quality of discernment lies the possibility of future

improvement for the insect.









IV



HER ORIGIN



The Pelopæus sets us another problem. She seeks the warmth of our

fireplaces. Her nest, built of soft mud which would be reduced to pulp

by damp, must have a dry shelter. Heat is a necessity to her.



Is it possible that she is a foreigner? Did she come, perhaps, from the

shores of Africa, from the land of dates to the land of olives? It

would be natural, in that case, that she should find our sunshine not

warm enough for her, and should seek the artificial warmth of the

fireside. This would explain her habits, so unlike those of the other

Wasps, by all of whom mankind is avoided.



What was her life before she became our guest? Where did she lodge

before there were any houses? Where did she shelter her grubs before

chimneys were thought of?



Perhaps, when the early inhabitants of the hills near Sérignan were

making weapons out of flints, scraping goatskins for clothes, and

building huts of mud and branches, those huts were already frequented

by the Pelopæus. Perhaps she built her nest in some bulging pot, shaped

out of clay by the thumbs of our ancestors; or in the folds of the

garments, the skins of the Wolf and the Bear. When she made her home on

the rough walls of branches and clay, did she choose the nearest spot,

I wonder, to the hole in the roof by which the smoke was let out?

Though not equal to our chimneys it may have served at a pinch.



If the Pelopæus really lived here with the earliest human inhabitants,

what improvements she has seen! She too must have profited greatly by

civilisation: she has turned man’s increasing comfort into her own.

When the dwelling with a roof and a ceiling was planned, and the

chimney with a flue was invented, we can imagine the chilly creature

saying to herself:



“How pleasant this is! Let us pitch our tent here.”



But we will go back further still. Before huts existed, before the

niche in the rut, before man himself had appeared, where did the

Pelopæus build? The question does not stand alone. Where did the

Swallow and the Sparrow build before there were windows and chimneys to

build in?



Since the Swallow, the Sparrow, and the Wasp existed before man, their

industry cannot be dependent on the works of man. Each of them must

have had an art of building in the time when man was not here.



For thirty years and more I asked myself where the Pelopæus lived in

those times. Outside our houses I could find no trace of her nests. At

last chance, which favours the persevering, came to my help.



The Sérignan quarries are full of broken stones, of refuse that has

been piled there in the course of centuries. Here the Fieldmouse

crunches his olive-stones and acorns, or now and then a Snail. The

empty Snail-shells lie here and there beneath a stone, and within them

different Bees and Wasps build their cells. In searching for these

treasures I found, three times, the nest of a Pelopæus among the broken

stones.



These three nests were exactly the same as those found in our houses.

The material was mud, as always; the protective covering was the same

mud. The dangers of the site had suggested no improvements to the

builder. We see, then, that sometimes, but very rarely, the Pelopæus

builds in stoneheaps and under flat blocks of stone that do not touch

the ground. It was in such places as these that she must have made her

nest before she invaded our houses.



The three nests, however, were in a piteous state. The damp and

exposure had ruined them, and the cocoons were in pieces. Unprotected

by their earthen cover the grubs had perished—eaten by a Fieldmouse or

another.



The sight of these ruins made me wonder if my neighbourhood were really

a suitable place for the Pelopæus to build her nest out of doors. It is

plain that the mother Wasp dislikes doing so, and is hardly ever driven

to such a desperate measure. And if the climate makes it impossible for

her to practise the industry of her forefathers successfully, I think

we may conclude that she is a foreigner. Surely she comes from a hotter

and drier climate, where there is little rain and no snow.



I believe the Pelopæus is of African origin. Far back in the past she

came to us through Spain and Italy, and she hardly ever goes further

north than the olive-trees. She is an African who has become a

naturalised Provençal. In Africa she is said often to nest under

stones, but in the Malay Archipelago we hear of her kinswoman in

houses. From one end of the world to the other she has the same

tastes—Spiders, mud cells, and the shelter of a man’s roof. If I were

in the Malay Archipelago I should turn over the stone-heaps, and should

most likely discover a nest in the original position, under a flat

stone.

















CHAPTER VII



THE PSYCHES





I



A WELL-DRESSED CATERPILLAR



In the springtime, those who have eyes to see may find a surprise on

old walls and dusty roads. Certain tiny faggots, for no apparent

reason, set themselves in motion and make their way along by sudden

jerks. The lifeless comes to life: the immovable moves. This is indeed

amazing. If we look closer, however, we shall solve the riddle.



Enclosed within the moving bundle is a fair-sized Caterpillar, prettily

striped with black and white. He is seeking for food, and perhaps for

some spot where he can turn into a Moth. He hurries along timidly,

dressed in a queer garment of twigs, which completely covers the whole

of him except his head and the front part of his body, with its six

short legs. At the least alarm he disappears entirely into his case,

and does not budge again. This is the secret of the walking bundle of

sticks. It is a Faggot Caterpillar, belonging to the group known as the

Psyches.



To protect himself from the weather the chilly, bare-skinned Psyche

builds himself a portable shelter, a travelling cottage which the owner

never leaves until he becomes a Moth. It is, indeed, something better

than a hut on wheels, with a thatched roof to it: it is more like a

hermit’s frock, made of an unusual kind of material. In the valley of

the Danube the peasant wears a goatskin cloak fastened with a belt of

rushes. The Psyche wears even rougher raiment than this: he makes

himself a suit of clothes out of sticks. And since this would be a

regular hair-shirt to a skin so delicate as his, he puts in a thick

lining of silk.



In April, on the walls of my chief workshop—my stony harmas with its

wealth of insect life—I find the Psyche who will supply me with my most

detailed information. He is in the torpid state which shows he will

soon become a Moth. It is a good opportunity for examining his bundle

of sticks, or case.



It is a fairly regular object, shaped like a spindle, and about an inch

and a half long. The pieces that compose it are fixed in front and free

at the back. They are arranged anyhow, and would form rather a poor

shelter against the sun and rain if the hermit had no other protection

than this.



At the first glance it appears like thatch; but thatch is not an exact

description of it, for grain-stems are rarely found in it. The chief

materials are remnants of very small stalks, light, soft, and rich in

pith; next in order come bits of grass-leaves, scaly twigs from the

cypress-tree, and all sorts of little sticks; and lastly, if the

favourite pieces run short, fragments of dry leaves.



In short the Caterpillar, while preferring pithy pieces, will use

anything he comes across, provided it be light, very dry, softened by

long exposure, and of the right size. All his materials are used just

as they are, without any alterations or sawings to make them the proper

length. He does not cut the laths that form his roof; he gathers them

as he finds them. His work is limited to fixing them at the fore-end.



In order to lend itself to the movements of the travelling Caterpillar,

and particularly to enable the head and legs to move freely while a new

piece is being fixed in position, the front part of this case or sheath

must be made in a special way. Here a casing of sticks is no longer

suitable, for their length and stiffness would hamper the workman and

even make his work impossible. What is required here is a flexible

neck, able to move in all directions. The collection of stakes,

therefore, ends suddenly at some distance from the fore-part, and is

there replaced by a collar where the silk lining is merely hardened

with very tiny particles of wood, which strengthen the material without

making it less flexible. This collar, which allows of free movement, is

so important that all the Psyches use it, however greatly the rest of

their work may differ. All carry, in front of the bundle of sticks, a

yielding neck, soft to the touch, formed inside of a web of pure silk

and coated outside with a velvety sawdust, which the Caterpillar

obtains by crushing up any sort of dry straw.



The same kind of velvet, but dull and faded—apparently through

age—finishes the sheath at the back, in the form of a rather long

projection, open at the end.



When I remove the outside of the straw casing, shredding it piece by

piece, I find a varying number of laths, or tiny sticks. I have counted

as many as eighty, and more. Underneath it I find, from one end of the

Caterpillar to the other, the same kind of inner sheath that was

formerly visible at the front and back only. This inner sheath is

composed everywhere of very strong silk, which resists without breaking

when pulled by the fingers. It is a smooth tissue, beautifully white

inside, drab and wrinkled outside, where it bristles with a crust of

woody particles.



Later on we shall see how the Caterpillar makes himself this

complicated garment, formed of three layers, one placed upon the other

in a definite order. First comes the extremely fine satin which is in

direct contact with the skin; next, the mixed stuff dusted with woody

matter, which saves the silk and gives strength to the work; and lastly

the outer casing of overlapping sticks.



Although all the Psyches wear this threefold garment, the different

species make distinct variations in the outer case. There is one kind,

for instance, whom I am apt to meet towards the end of June, hurrying

across some dusty path near the houses. His case surpasses that of the

first species, both in size and in regularity of arrangement. It forms

a thick coverlet of many pieces, in which I recognise fragments of

hollow stalks, bits of fine straw, and perhaps blades of grass. In

front there is never any flounce of dead leaves, a troublesome piece of

finery which is pretty frequent, though not always used, in the costume

of the first species I described. At the back there is no long

projection beyond the outer covering. Save for the indispensable collar

at the neck, the whole Caterpillar is cased in sticks. There is not

much variety about the thing, but, when all is said, there is a certain

beauty in its stern faultlessness.



There is a smaller and more simply dressed Psyche who is very common at

the end of winter on the walls, as well as in the bark of gnarled old

trees, whether olive-trees or elms, or indeed almost any other. His

case, a modest little bundle, is hardly more than two-fifths of an inch

in length. A dozen rotten straws, picked up at random and fixed close

to one another in a parallel direction, represent, with the silk

sheath, his whole outlay on dress.



It would be difficult to clothe oneself more economically.









II



A DEVOTED MOTHER



If I gather a number of little Psyches in April and place them in a

wire bell-jar, I can find out more about them. Most of them are in the

chrysalis state, waiting to be turned into Moths, but a few are still

active and clamber to the top of the wire trellis. There they fix

themselves by means of a little silk cushion, and both they and I must

wait for weeks before anything further happens.



At the end of June the male Psyche comes out of his case, no longer a

Caterpillar, but a Moth. The case, or bundle of sticks, you will

remember, had two openings, one in front and one at the back. The front

one, which is the more regular and carefully made, is permanently

closed by being fastened to the support on which the chrysalis is

fixed; so the Moth, when he is hatched, is obliged to come out by the

opening at the back. The Caterpillar turns round inside the case before

he changes into a Moth.



Though they wear but a simple pearl-grey dress and have insignificant

wings, hardly larger than those of a Common Fly, these little male

Moths are graceful enough. They have handsome feathery plumes for

antennæ, and their wings are edged with delicate fringes. For the

appearance of the female Psyche, however, little can be said.



Some days later than the others she comes out of the sheath, and shows

herself in all her wretchedness. Call that little fright a Moth! One

cannot easily get used to the idea of so miserable a sight: as a

Caterpillar she was no worse to look at. There are no wings, none at

all; there is no silky fur either. At the tip of her round, tufty body

she wears a crown of dirty-white velvet; on each segment, in the middle

of the back, is a large, rectangular, dark patch—her sole attempts at

ornament. The mother Psyche renounces all the beauty which her name of

Moth seems to promise.



As she leaves her chrysalid sheath she lays her eggs within it, thus

bequeathing the maternal cottage (or the maternal garment, if you will)

to her heirs. As she lays a great many eggs the affair takes some

thirty hours. When the laying is finished she closes the door and makes

everything safe against invasion. For this purpose some kind of wadding

is required. The fond mother makes use of the only ornament which, in

her extreme poverty, she possesses. She wedges the door with the

coronet of velvet which she carries at the tip of her body.



Finally she does even more than this. She makes a rampart of her body

itself. With a convulsive movement she dies on the threshold of her

recent home, her cast chrysalid skin, and there her remains dry up.

Even after death she stays at her post.



If the outer case be now opened it will be found to contain the

chrysalid wrapper, uninjured except for the opening in front, by which

the Psyche came out. The male Moth, when obliged to make his way

through the narrow pass, would find his wings and his plumes very

cumbersome articles. For this reason he makes a start for the door

while he is still in the chrysalis state, and comes half-way out. Then,

as he bursts his amber-coloured tunic, he finds, right in front of him,

an open space where flight is possible.



But the mother Moth, being unprovided with wings and plumes, is not

compelled to take any such precautions. Her cylinder-like form is bare,

and differs very little from that of the Caterpillar. It allows her to

crawl, to slip into the narrow passage, and to come forth without

difficulty. So she leaves her cast skin behind her, right at the back

of the case, well covered by the thatched roof.



And this is an act of prudence, showing her deep concern for the fate

of her eggs. They are, in fact, packed as though in a barrel, in the

parchment-like bag formed by the cast skin. The Moth has methodically

gone on laying eggs in that receptacle till it is full. Not satisfied

with bequeathing her house and her velvet coronet to her offspring, as

the last act of her life she leaves them her skin.



Wishing to observe the course of events at my ease I once took one of

these chrysalid bags, stuffed with eggs, from its outer casing of

sticks, and placed it by itself, beside its case, in a glass tube. In

the first week of July I suddenly found myself in possession of a large

family. The hatching took place so quickly that the new-born

Caterpillars, about forty in number, had already clothed themselves in

my absence.



They wore a garment like a sort of Persian head-dress, in dazzling

white plush. Or, to be more commonplace, a white cotton night-cap

without a tassel. Strange to say, however, instead of wearing their

caps on their heads, they wore them standing up from their

hind-quarters, almost perpendicularly. They roamed about gaily inside

the tube, which was a spacious dwelling for such mites. I was quite

determined to find out with what materials and in what manner the first

outlines of the cap were woven.



Fortunately the chrysalid bag was far from being empty. I found within

the rumpled wrapper a second family as numerous as those already out of

the case. Altogether there must have been five or six dozen eggs. I

transferred to another place the little Caterpillars who were already

dressed, keeping only the naked new-comers in the tube. They had bright

red heads; the rest of their bodies was dirty-white; and they measured

hardly a twenty-fifth of an inch in length.



I had not long to wait. The next day, little by little, singly or in

groups, the little laggards left the chrysalid bag. They came out

without breaking that frail object, through the opening in front made

by their mother. Not one of them used it as a dress-material, though it

had the delicacy and amber colouring of an onion-skin; nor did any of

them make use of a certain fine quilting that lines the inside of the

bag and forms an exquisitely soft bed for the eggs. One would have

thought this downy stuff would make an excellent blanket for the chilly

creatures, but not a single one used it. There would not be enough to

go round.



They all went straight to the coarse outer casing of sticks, which I

had left in contact with the chrysalid skin containing the eggs. The

matter was urgent, they evidently felt. Before making your entrance

into the world and going a-hunting, you must first be clad. All

therefore, with equal fury, attacked the old sheath and hastily dressed

themselves in their mother’s old clothes.



Some turned their attention to bits that happened to be opened

lengthwise, scraping the soft white inner layer; others, greatly

daring, penetrated into the tunnel of a hollow stalk and collected

their materials in the dark. The courage of these was rewarded; they

secured first-rate materials and wove garments of dazzling white. There

were others who bit deeply into the piece they chose, and made

themselves a motley covering, in which the snowy whiteness was marred

by darker particles.



The tools the little Caterpillars use for this purpose are their

mandibles, which are shaped like wide shears and have five strong teeth

apiece. The two blades fit into each other, and form an instrument

capable of seizing and slicing any fibre, however small. Under the

microscope it is seen to be a wonderful specimen of mechanical

precision and power. If the Sheep had a similar tool in proportion to

her size, she could browse on the stems of trees instead of the grass.



It is very instructive to watch these Psyche-grubs toiling to make

themselves a cotton night-cap. There are numbers of things to remark,

both in the finish of the work and the skill of the methods they

employ. They are so tiny that while I observe them through my

magnifying glass I must be careful not to breathe, lest I should

overturn them or puff them away. Yet this speck is expert in the art of

blanket-making. An orphan, born but a moment ago, it knows how to cut

itself a garment out of its mother’s old clothes. Of its methods I will

tell you more presently, but first I must say another word with regard

to its dead mother.



I have spoken of the downy quilting that covers the inside of the

chrysalid bag. It is like a bed of eiderdown, on which the little

Caterpillars rest for a while after leaving the egg. Warmly nestling in

this soft rug they prepare themselves for their plunge into the outer

world of work.



The Eider robs herself of her down to make a luxurious bed for her

brood; the mother Rabbit shears from her own body the softest part of

her fur to provide a mattress for her new-born family. And the same

thing is done by the Psyche.



The mass of soft wadding that makes a warm coverlet for the baby

Caterpillar is a material of incomparable delicacy. Through the

microscope it can be recognised as the scaly dust, the intensely fine

down in which every Moth is clad. To give a snug shelter to the little

grubs who will soon be swarming in the case, to provide them with a

refuge in which they can play about and gather strength before entering

the wide world, the Psyche strips herself of her fur like the mother

Rabbit.



This may possibly be done mechanically; it may be the unintentional

effect of rubbing repeatedly against the low-roofed walls; but there is

nothing to tell us so. Even the humblest mother has her foresight. It

is quite likely that the hairy Moth twists about, and goes to and fro

in the narrow passage, in order to get rid of her fleece and prepare

bedding for her family.



I have read in books that the young Psyches begin life by eating up

their mother. I have seen nothing of the sort, and I do not even

understand how the idea arose. Indeed, she has given up so much for her

family that there is nothing left of her but some thin, dry strips—not

enough to provide a meal for so numerous a brood. No, my little

Psyches, you do not eat your mother. In vain do I watch you: never,

either to clothe or to feed himself, does any one of you lay a tooth

upon the remains of the deceased.









III



A CLEVER TAILOR



I will now describe in greater detail the dressing of the grubs.



The hatching of the eggs takes place in the first fortnight of July.

The head and upper part of the little grubs are of a glossy black, the

next two segments are brownish, and the rest of the body is a pale

amber. They are sharp, lively little creatures, who run about with

short, quick steps.



For a time, after they are out of the bag where they are hatched, they

remain in the heap of fluff that was stripped from their mother. Here

there is more room, and more comfort too, than in the bag whence they

came; and while some take a rest, others bustle about and exercise

themselves in walking. They are all picking up strength before leaving

the outer case.



They do not stay long amid this luxury. Gradually, as they gain vigour,

they come out and spread over the surface of the case. Work begins at

once, a very urgent work—that of dressing themselves. By and by they

will think of food: at present nothing is of any importance but

clothes.



Montaigne, when putting on a cloak which his father had worn before

him, used to say, “I dress myself in my father.” Well, the young

Psyches in the same way dress themselves in their mother. (In the same

way, it must be remembered; not in her skin, but in her clothes.) From

the outer case of sticks, which I have sometimes described as a house

and sometimes as a garment, they scrape the material to make themselves

a frock. The stuff they use is the pith of the little stalks,

especially of the pieces that are split lengthwise, because the

contents are more easily taken from these.



The manner of beginning the garment is worth noting. The tiny creature

employs a method as ingenious as any that we could hope to discover.

The wadding is collected in pellets of infinitesimal size. How are

these little pellets to be fixed and joined together? The manufacturer

needs a support, a base; and this support cannot be obtained on the

Caterpillar’s own body. The difficulty is overcome very cleverly. The

pellets are gathered together, and by degrees fastened to one another

with threads of silk—for the Caterpillar, as you know, can spin silk

from his own body as the Spider spins her web. In this way a sort of

garland is formed, with the pellets or particles swinging in a row from

the same rope. When it is long enough this garland is passed round the

waist of the little creature, in such a way as to leave its six legs

free. Then it ties the ends together with a bit of silk, so that it

forms a girdle round the grub’s body.



This girdle is the starting-point and support of the whole work. To

lengthen it, and enlarge it into a complete garment, the grub has only

to fix to it the scraps of pith which the mandibles never cease tearing

from the case. These scraps or pellets are sometimes placed at the top,

sometimes at the bottom or side, but they are always fixed at the

fore-edge. No device could be better contrived than this garland, first

laid out flat and then buckled like a belt round the body.



Once this start is made the weaving goes on well. Gradually the girdle

grows into a scarf, a waistcoat, a short jacket, and lastly a sack, and

in a few hours it is complete—a conical hood or cloak of magnificent

whiteness.



Thanks to his mother’s care the little grub is spared the perils of

roaming about in a state of nakedness. If she did not place her family

in her old case they might have great difficulty in clothing

themselves, for straws and stalks rich in pith are not found

everywhere. And yet, unless they died of exposure, it appears that

sooner or later they would find some kind of garment, since they seem

ready to use any material that comes to hand. I have made many

experiments with new-born grubs in a glass tube.



From the stalks of a sort of dandelion they scraped, without the least

hesitation, a superb white pith, and made it into a delicious white

cloak, much finer than any they would have obtained from the remains of

their mother’s clothes. An even better garment was woven from some pith

taken from the kitchen-broom. This time the work glittered with little

sparks, like specks of crystal or grains of sugar. It was my

manufacturers’ masterpiece.



The next material I offered them was a piece of blotting-paper. Here

again my grubs did not hesitate: they lustily scraped the surface and

made themselves a paper coat. Indeed, they were so much pleased with

this that when I gave them their native case they scorned it,

preferring the blotting-paper.



To others I gave nothing at all. Not to be baffled, however, they

hastened to scrape the cork of the tube and break it into atoms. Out of

these they made themselves a frock of cork-grains, as faultless as

though they and their ancestors had always made use of this material.

The novelty of the stuff, which perhaps no Caterpillar had ever used

before, made no difference in the cut of the garment.



Finding them ready to accept any vegetable matter that was dry and

light, I next tried them with animal and mineral substances. I cut a

strip from the wing of a Great Peacock Moth, and placed two little

naked Caterpillars upon it. For a long time they both hesitated. Then

one of them resolved to use the strange carpet. Before the day was over

he had clothed himself in grey velvet made of the Great Peacock’s

scales.



I next took some soft, flaky stones, such as will break at the merest

touch into atoms nearly as fine as the dust on a Butterfly’s wing. On a

bed of this powdery stuff, which glittered like steel filings, I placed

four Caterpillars in need of clothes. One, and one alone, decided to

dress himself. His metallic garment, from which the light drew flashes

of every colour of the rainbow, was very rich and sumptuous, but

mightily heavy and cumbrous. Walking became laborious under that load

of metal. Even so must a Byzantine Emperor have walked at ceremonies of

State.



In cases of necessity, then, the young Caterpillar does not shrink from

acts of sheer madness. So urgent is his need to clothe himself that he

will weave mineral matter rather than go naked. Food means less to him

than clothes. If I make him fast for a couple of days, and then, having

robbed him of his garment, place him on his favourite food, a leaf of

very hairy hawkweed, he will make himself a new coat before satisfying

his hunger.



This devotion to dress is due, not to any special sensitiveness to

cold, but to the young Caterpillar’s foresight. Other Caterpillars take

shelter among the leaves, in underground cells, or in the cracked bark

of trees, but the Psyche spends his winter exposed to the weather. He

therefore prepares himself, from his birth, for the perils of the cold

season.



As soon as he is threatened with the rains of autumn he begins to work

upon his outer case. It is very rough at first. Straws of uneven length

and bits of dry leaves are fastened, with no attempt at order, behind

the neck of the sack or undergarment, which must remain flexible so as

to allow the Caterpillar to bend freely in every direction. These

untidy first logs of the outer case will not interfere with the final

regularity of the building: they will be pushed back and driven out as

the sack grows longer in front.



After a time the pieces are longer and more carefully chosen, and are

all laid on lengthwise. The placing of a straw is done with surprising

speed and skill. The Caterpillar turns it round and round between his

legs, and then, gripping it in his mandibles, removes a few morsels

from one end, and immediately fixes them to the end of the sack. He

probably does this in order that the silk may obtain a firmer hold, as

a plumber gives a touch of the file to a point that is to be soldered.



Then, by sheer strength of jaw, he lifts and brandishes his straw in

the air before laying it on his back. At once the spinneret sets to

work and fixes it in place. Without any groping about or correcting,

the thing is done. By the time the cold weather arrives the warm case

is complete.



But the silky felt of the interior is never thick enough to please the

Caterpillar. When spring comes he spends all his spare time in

improving his quilt, in making it ever thicker and softer. Even if I

take off his outer case he refuses to rebuild it: he persists in adding

new layers to the lining, even when there is nothing to be lined. The

sack is lamentably flabby; it sags and rumples. He has no protection

nor shelter. No matter. The hour for carpentry has passed. The hour has

come for upholstering; and he upholsters obstinately, padding a

house—or lining a garment—that no longer exists. He will perish

miserably, cut up by the Ants, as the result of his too-rigid instinct.

















CHAPTER VIII



THE SELF-DENIAL OF THE SPANISH COPRIS





You remember, I hope, the Sacred Beetle, who spends her time in making

balls, both to serve as food and also to be the foundation of her

pear-shaped nest. I pointed out the advantages of this shape for the

young Beetles, since the globe is the best form that could be invented

to keep their provisions from becoming dry and hard.



After watching this Beetle at work for a long time I began to wonder if

I had not perhaps been mistaken in admiring her instinct so greatly.

Was it really care for her grubs, I asked myself, that taught her to

provide them with the tenderest and most suitable food? It is the trade

of the Sacred Beetle to make balls. Is it wonderful that she should

continue her ball-making underground? A creature built with long curved

legs, very useful for rolling balls across the fields, will go on with

her favourite occupation wherever she may be, without regard to her

grubs. Perhaps the shape of the pear is mere chance.



To settle this question satisfactorily in my own mind I should need to

be shown a Scavenger Beetle who was utterly unfamiliar with the

ball-making business in everyday life, and who yet, when laying-time

was at hand, made an abrupt change in her habits and stored her

provisions in the form of a round lump. That would show me that it was

not merely custom, but care for her grubs, that made her choose the

globular shape for her nest.



Now in my neighbourhood there is a Beetle of this very kind. She is one

of the handsomest and largest, though not so imposing as the Sacred

Beetle. Her name is the Spanish Copris, and she is remarkable for the

sharp slope of her chest and the size of the horn surmounting her head.



Being round and squat, the Spanish Copris is certainly incapable of

such gymnastics as are performed by the Sacred Beetle. Her legs, which

are insignificant in length, and which she folds under her body at the

slightest alarm, are not in the least like the stilts of the

pill-rollers. Their stunted form and their lack of flexibility are

enough in themselves to tell us that their owner would not care to roam

about burdened with a rolling ball.



The Copris, indeed, is not of an active nature. Once she has found her

provisions, at night or in the evening twilight, she begins to dig a

burrow on the spot. It is a rough cavern, large enough to hold an

apple. Here is introduced, bit by bit, the stuff that is just overhead,

or at any rate lying on the threshold of the cave. An enormous supply

of food is stored in a shapeless mass, plain evidence of the insect’s

gluttony. As long as the hoard lasts the Copris remains underground.

When the larder is empty the insect searches out a fresh supply of

food, and scoops out another burrow.



For the time being the Copris is merely a scavenger, a gatherer of

manure. She is evidently quite ignorant, at present, of the art of

kneading and modelling a round loaf. Besides, her short clumsy legs

seem utterly unsuited for any such art.



In May or June, however, comes laying-time. The insect becomes very

particular about choosing the softest materials for her family’s food.

Having found what pleases her, she buries it on the spot, carrying it

down by armfuls, bit by bit. There is no travelling, no carting, no

preparation. I observe, too, that the burrow is larger and better built

than the temporary abodes in which the Copris takes her own meals.



Finding it difficult to observe the insect closely in its wild state, I

resolved to place it in my insect-house, and there watch it at my ease.



The poor creature was at first a little nervous in captivity, and when

she had made her burrow was very cautious about entering it. By

degrees, however, she was reassured, and in a single night she stored a

supply of the food I had provided for her.



Before a week was out I dug up the soil in my insect-house, and brought

to light the burrow I had seen her storing with provisions. It was a

spacious hall, with an irregular roof and an almost level floor. In a

corner was a round hole leading to a slanting gallery, which ran up to

the surface of the soil. The walls of this dwelling, which was hollowed

out of fresh earth, had been carefully compressed, and were strong

enough to resist the earthquake caused by my experiments. It was easy

to see that the insect had put forth all her skill, all her

digging-powers, in the making of this permanent home, whereas her own

dining-room had been a mere cave, with walls that were none too safe.



I suspect she is helped, in the building of this architectural

masterpiece, by her mate: at least I often see him with her in the

burrows. I also believe that he lends his partner a hand with the

collecting and storing of the provisions. It is a quicker job when

there are two to work. But once the home is well stocked he retires: he

makes his way back to the surface and settles down elsewhere. His part

in the family mansion is ended.



Now what do I find in this mansion, into which I have seen so many tiny

loads of provisions lowered? A mass of small pieces, heaped together

anyhow? Not a bit of it. I always find a simple lump, a huge mass which

fills the dwelling except for a narrow passage.



This lump has no fixed shape. I come across some that are like a

Turkey’s egg in form and size; some the shape of a common onion; I find

some that are almost round, and remind me of a Dutch cheese; I see some

that are circular, with a slight swelling on the upper surface. In

every case the surface is smooth and nicely curved.



There is no mistaking what has happened. The mother has collected and

kneaded into one lump the numerous fragments brought down one after the

other. Out of all those particles she has made a single lump, by

mashing them, working them together, and treading on them. Time after

time I have seen her on top of the colossal loaf which is so much

larger than the ball of the Sacred Beetle—a mere pill in comparison.

She strolls about on the convex surface, which sometimes measures as

much as four inches across; she pats the mass, and makes it firm and

level. I only catch a sight of the curious scene, for the moment she

sees me she slips down the curved slope and hides away.



With the help of a row of glass jars, all enclosed in opaque sheaths of

cardboard, I can find out a good many interesting things. In the first

place I have found that the big loaf does not owe its curve—which is

always regular, no matter how much the slope may vary—to any rolling

process. Indeed I already knew that so large a mess could not have been

rolled into a hole that it nearly fills. Besides, the strength of the

insect would be unequal to moving so great a load.



Every time I go to the jar the evidence is the same. I always see the

mother Beetle twisted on top of the lump, feeling here and feeling

there, giving little taps, and making the thing smooth. Never do I

catch her looking as if she wanted to turn the block. It is clear as

daylight that rolling has nothing to do with the matter.



At last it is ready. The baker divides his lump of dough into smaller

lumps, each of which will become a loaf. The Copris does the same

thing. By making a circular cut with the sharp edge of her forehead,

and at the same time using the saw of her fore-legs, she detaches from

the mass a piece of the size she requires. In giving this stroke she

has no hesitation: there are no after-touches, adding a bit here and

taking off a bit there. Straight away, with one sharp, decisive cut,

she obtains the proper-sized lump.



Next comes the question of shaping it. Clasping it as best she can in

her short arms, so little adapted, one would think, for work of this

kind, the Copris rounds her lump of food by pressure, and pressure

only. Solemnly she moves about on the still shapeless mass, climbs up,

climbs down, turns to right and left, above and below, touching and

re-touching with unvarying patience. Finally, after twenty-four hours

of this work, the piece that was all corners has become a perfect

sphere, the size of a plum. There in her cramped studio, with scarcely

room to move, the podgy artist has completed her work without once

shaking it on its base: by dint of time and patience she has obtained

the exact sphere which her clumsy tools and her confined space seemed

to render impossible.



For a long time she continues to polish up the globe with affectionate

touches of her foot, but at last she is satisfied. She climbs to the

top, and by simple pressure hollows out a shallow cavity. In this basin

she lays an egg.



Then, with extreme caution and delicacy, she brings together the sides

of the basin so as to cover the egg, and carefully scrapes the sides

towards the top, which begins to taper a little and lengthen out. In

the end the ball has become ovoid, or egg-shaped.



The insect next helps herself to a second piece of the cut loaf, which

she treats in the same way. The remainder serves for a third ovoid, or

even a fourth. The Sacred Beetle, you remember, made a single

pear-shaped nest in a way that was familiar to her, and then left her

egg underground while she engaged in fresh enterprises. The Copris

behaves very differently.



Her burrow is almost filled by three or four ovoid nests, standing one

against the other, with the pointed end upwards. After her long fast

one would expect her to go away, like the Sacred Beetle, in search of

food. On the contrary, however, she stays where she is. And yet she has

eaten nothing since she came underground, for she has taken good care

not to touch the food prepared for her family. She will go hungry

rather than let her grubs suffer.



Her object in staying is to mount guard over the cradles. The pear of

the Sacred Beetle suffers from the mother’s desertion. It soon shows

cracks, and becomes scaly and swollen. After a time it loses its shape.

But the nest of the Copris remains perfect, owing to the mother’s care.

She goes from one to the other, feels them, listens to them, and

touches them up at points where my eye can detect no flaw. Her clumsy

horn-shod foot is more sensitive in the darkness than my sight in broad

daylight: she feels the least threatening of a crack and attends to it

at once, lest the air should enter and dry up her eggs. She slips in

and out of the narrow spaces between the cradles, inspecting them with

the utmost care. If I disturb her she sometimes rubs the tip of her

body against the edge of her wing-cases, making a soft rustling sound,

like a murmur of complaint. In this way, caring industriously for her

cradles, and sometimes snatching a brief sleep beside them the mother

waits.



The Copris enjoys in her underground home a rare privilege for an

insect: the pleasure of knowing her family. She hears her grubs

scratching at the shell to obtain their liberty; she is present at the

bursting of the nest which she has made so carefully. And when the

little captive, stiffening his legs and humping his back, tries to

split the ceiling that presses down on him, it is quite possible that

the mother comes to his assistance by making an assault on the nest

from the outside. Being fitted by instinct for repairing and building,

why should she not also be fitted for demolishing? However, I will make

no assertions, for I have been unable to see.



Now it is possible to say that the mother Copris, being imprisoned in

an enclosure from which she cannot escape, stays in the midst of her

nest because she has no choice in the matter. Yet, if this were so,

would she trouble about her work of polishing and constant inspection?

These cares evidently are natural to her: they form part of her habits.

If she were anxious to regain her liberty, she would surely roam

restlessly round the enclosure, whereas I always see her very quiet and

absorbed.



To make certain, I have inspected my glass jars at different times. She

could go lower down in the sand and hide anywhere she pleased, if rest

were what she wanted; she could climb outside and sit down to fresh

food, if refreshment became necessary. Neither the prospect of rest in

a deeper cave nor the thought of the sun and of food makes her leave

her family. Until the last of them has burst his shell she sticks to

her post. I always find her beside her cradles.



For four months she is without food of any kind. She was no better than

a glutton at first, when there was no family to consider, but now she

becomes self-denying to the point of prolonged fasting. The Hen sitting

on her eggs forgets to eat for some weeks; the watchful Copris mother

forgets food for a third part of the year.



The summer is over. The rains so greatly desired by man and beast have

come at last, soaking the ground to some depth. After the torrid and

dusty days of our Provençal summer, when life is in suspense, we have

the coolness that revives it. The heath puts out its first pink bells;

the autumnal squill lifts its little spike of lilac flowers; the

strawberry-tree’s coral bells begin to soften; the Sacred Beetle and

the Copris burst their shells, and come to the surface in time to enjoy

the last fine weather of the year.



The newly released Copris family, accompanied by their mother,

gradually emerge from underground. There are three or four of them,

five at most. The sons are easily recognised by the greater length of

their horns; but there is nothing to distinguish the daughters from the

mother. For that matter, the same confusion exists among themselves. An

abrupt change has taken place. The mother whose devotion was lately so

remarkable is now utterly indifferent to the welfare of her family.

Henceforward each looks after his own home and his own interests. They

no longer have anything to do with one another.



The present indifference of the mother Beetle must not make us forget

the wonderful care she has lavished for four months on end. Except

among the Bees, Wasps, and Ants, who spoon-feed their young and bring

them up with every attention to their health, I know of no other such

case of maternal self-denial. Alone and unaided she provides each of

her children with a cake of food, whose crust she constantly repairs,

so that it becomes the safest of cradles. So intense is her affection

that she loses all desire and need of food. In the darkness of the

burrow she watches over her brood for four months, attending to the

wants of the egg, the grub, the undeveloped Beetle, and the full-grown

insect. She does not return to the glad outer life till all her family

are free. Thus we see one of the most brilliant examples of maternal

instinct in a humble scavenger of the fields. The Spirit breatheth

where He will.

















CHAPTER IX



TWO STRANGE GRASSHOPPERS





I



THE EMPUSA



The sea, where life first appeared, still preserves in its depths many

of those curious shapes which were the earliest specimens of the animal

kingdom. But the land has almost entirely lost the strange forms of

other days. The few that remain are mostly insects. One of these is the

Praying Mantis, whose remarkable shape and habits I have already

described to you. Another is the Empusa.



This insect, in its undeveloped or larval state, is certainly the

strangest creature in all Provence: a slim, swaying thing of so

fantastic an appearance that unaccustomed fingers dare not lay hold of

it. The children of my neighbourhood are so much impressed by its

startling shape that they call it “the Devilkin.” They imagine it to be

in some way connected with witchcraft. One comes across it, though

never in great numbers, in the spring up to May; in autumn; and

sometimes in winter if the sun be strong. The tough grasses of the

waste-lands, the stunted bushes which catch the sunshine and are

sheltered from the wind by a few heaps of stones, are the chilly

Empusa’s favourite dwelling.



I will tell you, as well as I can, what she looks like. The tail-end of

her body is always twisted and curved up over her back so as to form a

crook, and the lower surface of her body (that is to say, of course,

the upper surface of the crook) is covered with pointed, leaf-shaped

scales, arranged in three rows. The crook is propped on four long, thin

legs, like stilts; and on each of these legs, at the point where the

thigh joins the shin, is a curved, projecting blade not unlike that of

a cleaver.



In front of this crook on stilts, this four-legged stool, there rises

suddenly—very long and almost perpendicular—the stiff corselet or bust.

It is round and slender as a straw, and at the end of it is the

hunting-trap, copied from that of the Mantis. This consists of a

harpoon sharper than a needle, and a cruel vice with jaws toothed like

a saw. The jaw, or blade formed by the upper arm, is hollowed into a

groove and carries five long spikes on each side, with smaller

indentations in between. The jaw formed by the fore-arm is grooved in

the same way, but the teeth are finer, closer, and more regular. When

at rest, the saw of the fore-arm fits into the groove of the upper arm.

If the machine were only larger it would be a fearful instrument of

torture.



The head is in keeping with this arsenal. What a queer head it is! A

pointed face, with curled moustaches; large goggle eyes; between them

the blade of a dirk; and on the forehead a mad, unheard-of thing—a sort

of tall mitre, an extravagant head-dress that juts forward, spreading

right and left into peaked wings. What does the Devilkin want with that

monstrous pointed cap, as magnificent as any ever worn by astrologer of

old? The use of it will appear presently.



The creature’s colouring at this time is commonplace—chiefly grey. As

it develops it becomes faintly striped with pale green, white, and

pink.



If you come across this fantastic object in the bramble-bushes, it

sways upon its four stilts, it wags its head at you knowingly, it

twists its mitre round and peers over its shoulder. You seem to see

mischief in its pointed face. But if you try to take hold of it this

threatening attitude disappears at once; the raised corselet is

lowered, and the creature makes off with mighty strides, helping itself

along with its weapons, with which it clutches the twigs. If you have a

practiced eye, however, the Empusa is easily caught, and penned in a

cage of wire-gauze.



At first I was uncertain how to feed them. My Devilkins were very

little, a month or two old at most. I gave them Locusts suited to their

size, the smallest I could find. They not only refused them, but were

afraid of them. Any thoughtless Locust that meekly approached an Empusa

met with a bad reception. The pointed mitre was lowered, and an angry

thrust sent the Locust rolling. The wizard’s cap, then, is a defensive

weapon. As the Ram charges with his forehead, so the Empusa butts with

her mitre.



I next offered her a live House-fly, and this time the dinner was

accepted at once. The moment the Fly came within reach the watchful

Devilkin turned her head, bent her corselet slantwise, harpooned the

Fly, and gripped it between her two saws. No Cat could pounce more

quickly on a Mouse.



To my surprise I found that the Fly was not only enough for a meal, but

enough for the whole day, and often for several days. These

fierce-looking insects are extremely abstemious. I was expecting them

to be ogres, and found them with the delicate appetites of invalids.

After a time even a Midge failed to tempt them, and through the winter

months they fasted altogether. When the spring came, however, they were

ready to indulge in a small piece of Cabbage Butterfly or Locust;

attacking their prey invariably in the neck, like the Mantis.



The young Empusa has one very curious habit when in captivity. In its

cage of wire-gauze its attitude is the same from first to last, and a

most strange attitude it is. It grips the wire by the claws of its four

hind-legs, and hangs motionless, back downwards, with the whole of its

body suspended from those four points. If it wishes to move, its

harpoons open in front, stretch out, grasp a mesh of the wire, and

pull. This process naturally draws the insect along the wire, still

upside down. Then the jaws close back against the chest.



And this upside-down position, which seems to us so trying, lasts for

no short while. It continues, in my cages, for ten months without a

break. The Fly on the ceiling, it is true, adopts the same position;

but she has her moments of rest. She flies, she walks in the usual way,

she spreads herself flat in the sun. The Empusa, on the other hand,

remains in her curious attitude for ten months on end, without a pause.

Hanging from the wire netting, back downwards, she hunts, eats,

digests, dozes, gets through all the experiences of an insect’s life,

and finally dies. She clambers up while she is still quite young; she

falls down in her old age, a corpse.



This custom is all the more remarkable in that it is practised only in

captivity. It is not an instinctive habit of the race; for out of doors

the insect, except at rare intervals, stands on the bushes back

upwards.



Strange as the performance is, I know of a similar case that is even

more peculiar: the attitude of certain Wasps and Bees during the

night’s rest. A particular Wasp, an Ammophila with red fore-legs, is

plentiful in my enclosure towards the end of August, and likes to sleep

in one of the lavender borders. At dusk, especially after a stifling

day when a storm is brewing, I am sure to find the strange sleeper

settled there. Never was a more eccentric attitude chosen for a night’s

rest. The jaws bite right into the lavender-stem. Its square shape

supplies a firmer hold than a round stalk would give. With this one and

only prop the Wasp’s body juts out stiffly at full length, with legs

folded. It forms a right angle with the stalk, so that the whole weight

of the insect rests upon the mandibles.



The Ammophila is enabled by its mighty jaws to sleep in this way,

extended in space. It takes an animal to think of a thing like that,

which upsets all our previous ideas of rest. Should the threatening

storm burst and the stalk sway in the wind, the sleeper is not troubled

by her swinging hammock; at most, she presses her fore-legs for a

moment against the tossing stem. Perhaps the Wasp’s jaws, like the

Bird’s toes, possess the power of gripping more tightly in proportion

to the violence of the wind. However that may be, there are several

kinds of Wasps and Bees who adopt this strange position,—gripping a

stalk with their mandibles, and sleeping with their bodies outstretched

and their legs folded back. This state of things makes us wonder what

it is that really constitutes rest.



About the middle of May the Empusa is transformed into her full-grown

condition. She is even more remarkable in figure and attire than the

Praying Mantis. She still keeps some of her youthful eccentricities—the

bust, the weapons on her knees, and the three rows of scales on the

lower surface of her body. But she is now no longer twisted into a

crook, and is comelier to look upon. Large pale-green wings, pink at

the shoulder and swift in flight, cover the white and green stripes

that ornament the body below. The male Empusa, who is a dandy, adorns

himself, like some of the Moths, with feathery antennæ.



When, in the spring, the peasant meets the Empusa, he thinks he sees

the common Praying Mantis, who is a daughter of the autumn. They are so

much alike that one would expect them to have the same habits. In fact,

any one might be tempted, led away by the extraordinary armour, to

suspect the Empusa of a mode of life even more atrocious than that of

the Mantis. This would be a mistake: for all their war-like aspect the

Empusæ are peaceful creatures.



Imprisoned in their wire-gauze bell-jar, either in groups of half a

dozen or in separate couples, they at no time lose their placidity.

Even in their full-grown state they are very small eaters, and content

themselves with a fly or two as their daily ration.



Big eaters are naturally quarrelsome. The Mantis, gorged with Locusts,

soon becomes irritated and shows fight. The Empusa, with her frugal

meals, is a lover of peace. She indulges in no quarrels with her

neighbours, nor does she pretend to be a ghost, with a view to

frightening them, after the manner of the Mantis. She never unfurls her

wings suddenly nor puffs like a startled Adder. She has never the least

inclination for the cannibal banquets at which a sister, after being

worsted in a fight, is eaten up. Nor does she, like the Mantis, devour

her husband. Such atrocities are here unknown.



The organs of the two insects are the same. These profound moral

differences, therefore, are not due to any difference in the bodily

form. Possibly they may arise from the difference in food. Simple

living, as a matter of fact, softens character, in animals as in men;

over-feeding brutalises it. The glutton, gorged with meat and strong

drink—a very common cause of savage outbursts—could never be as gentle

as the self-denying hermit who lives on bread dipped into a cup of

milk. The Mantis is a glutton: the Empusa lives the simple life.



And yet, even when this is granted, one is forced to ask a further

question. Why, when the two insects are almost exactly the same in

form, and might be expected to have the same needs, should the one have

an enormous appetite and the other such temperate ways? They tell us,

in their own fashion, what many insects have told us already: that

inclinations and habits do not depend entirely upon anatomy. High above

the laws that govern matter rise other laws that govern instincts.









II



THE WHITE-FACED DECTICUS



The White-faced Decticus stands at the head of the Grasshopper clan in

my district, both as a singer and as an insect of imposing presence. He

has a grey body, a pair of powerful mandibles, and a broad ivory face.

Without being plentiful, he is neither difficult nor wearisome to hunt.

In the height of summer we find him hopping in the long grass,

especially at the foot of the sunny rocks where the turpentine-tree

takes root.



The Greek word dectikos means biting, fond of biting. The Decticus is

well named. It is eminently an insect given to biting. Mind your finger

if this sturdy Grasshopper gets hold of it: he will rip it till the

blood comes. His powerful jaw, of which I have to beware when I handle

him, and the large muscles that swell out his cheeks, are evidently

intended for cutting up leathery prey.



I find, when the Decticus is imprisoned in my menagerie, that any fresh

meat tasting of Locust or Grasshopper suits his needs. The blue-winged

Locust is the most frequent victim. As soon as the food is introduced

into the cage there is an uproar, especially if the Dectici are hungry.

They stamp about, and dart forward clumsily, being hampered by their

long shanks. Some of the Locusts are caught at once, but others with

desperate bounds rush to the top of the cage, and there hang on out of

the reach of the Grasshopper, who is too stout to climb so high. But

they have only postponed their fate. Either because they are tired, or

because they are tempted by the green stuff below, they will come down,

and the Dectici will be after them immediately.



This Grasshopper, though his intellect is dull, possesses the art of

scientific killing of which we have seen instances elsewhere. He always

spears his prey in the neck, and, to make it helpless as quickly as

possible, begins by biting the nerves that enable it to move. It is a

very wise method, for the Locust is hard to kill. Even when beheaded he

goes on hopping. I have seen some who, though half-eaten, kicked out so

desperately that they succeeded in escaping.



With his weakness for Locusts, and also for certain seeds that are

harmful to unripe corn, these Grasshoppers might be of some service to

agriculture if only there were more of them. But nowadays his

assistance in preserving the fruits of the earth is very feeble. His

chief interest in our eyes is the fact that he is a memorial of the

remotest times. He gives us a vague glimpse of habits now out of use.



It was thanks to the Decticus that I first learnt one or two things

about young Grasshoppers.



Instead of packing their eggs in casks of hardened foam, like the

Locust and the Mantis, or laying them in a twig like the Cicada,

Grasshoppers plant them like seeds in the earth.



The mother Decticus has a tool at the end of her body with which she

scrapes out a little hole in the soil. In this hole she lays a certain

number of eggs, then loosens the dust round the side of the hole and

rams it down with her tool, very much as we should pack the earth in a

hole with a stick. In this way she covers up the well, and then sweeps

and smooths the ground above it.



She then goes for a little walk in the neighbourhood, by way of

recreation. Soon she comes back to the place where she has already laid

her eggs, and, very near the original spot, which she recognises quite

well, begins the work afresh. If I watch her for an hour I see her go

through this whole performance, including the short stroll in the

neighbourhood, no less than five times. The points where she lays the

eggs are always very close together.



When everything is finished I examine the little pits. The eggs lie

singly, without any cell or sheath to protect them. There are about

sixty of them altogether, pale lilac-grey in colour, and shaped like a

shuttle.



When I began to observe the ways of the Decticus I was anxious to watch

the hatching, so at the end of August I gathered plenty of eggs, and

placed them in a small glass jar with a layer of sand. Without

suffering any apparent change they spent eight months there under

cover, sheltered from the frosts, the showers, and the overpowering

heat of the sun, which they would be obliged to endure out of doors.



When June came, the eggs in my jar showed no sign of being about to

hatch. They were just as I had gathered them nine months before,

neither wrinkled nor tarnished, but on the contrary wearing a most

healthy look. Yet in June young Dectici are often to be met in the

fields, and sometimes even those of larger growth. What was the reason

of this delay, I wondered.



Then an idea came to me. The eggs of the Grasshopper are planted like

seeds in the earth, where they are exposed, without any protection, to

snow and rain. Those in my jar had spent two-thirds of the year in a

state of comparative dryness. Since they were sown like seeds, perhaps

they needed, to make them hatch, the moisture that seeds require to

make them sprout. I resolved to try.



I placed at the bottom of some glass tubes a pinch of backward eggs

taken from my collection, and on the top I heaped lightly a layer of

fine, damp sand. I closed the tubes with plugs of wet cotton, to keep

the air in them constantly moist. Any one seeing my preparations would

have supposed me to be a botanist experimenting with seeds.



My hopes were fulfilled. In the warmth and moisture the eggs soon

showed signs of hatching. They began to swell, and the bursting of the

shell was evidently close at hand. I spent a fortnight in keeping a

tedious watch at every hour of the day, for I had to surprise the young

Decticus actually leaving the egg, in order to solve a question that

had long been in my mind.



The question was this. The Grasshopper is buried, as a rule, about an

inch below the surface of the soil. Now the new-born Decticus, hopping

awkwardly in the grass at the approach of summer, has, like the

full-grown insect, a pair of very long tentacles, as slender as hairs;

while he carries behind him two extraordinary legs, two enormous hinged

jumping-poles that would be very inconvenient for ordinary walking. I

wished to find out how the feeble little creature set to work, with

this cumbrous luggage, to make its way to the surface of the earth. By

what means could it clear a passage through the rough soil? With its

feathery antennæ, which an atom of sand can break, and its immense

shanks, which are disjointed by the least effort, this mite is plainly

incapable of freeing itself.



As I have already told you, the Cicada and the Praying Mantis, when

issuing, the one from his twig, and the other from his nest, wear a

protective covering like an overall. It seemed to me that the little

Grasshopper, too, must come out through the sand in a simpler, more

compact form than he wears when he hops about the lawn on the day after

his birth.



Nor was I mistaken. The Decticus, like the others, wears an overall for

the occasion. The tiny, flesh-white creature is cased in a scabbard

which keeps the six legs flattened against the body, stretching

backwards, inert. In order to slip more easily through the soil his

shanks are tied up beside him; while the antennæ, those other

inconvenient appendages, are pressed motionless against the parcel.



The head is very much bent against the chest. With the big black specks

that are going to be its eyes, and its inexpressive, rather swollen

mask, it suggests a diver’s helmet. The neck opens wide at the back,

and, with a slow throbbing, by turns swells and sinks. It is by means

of this throbbing protrusion through the opening at the back of the

head that the new-born insect moves. When the lump is flat, the head

pushes back the damp sand a little way and slips into it by digging a

tiny pit. Then the swelling is blown out and becomes a knob which

sticks firmly in the hole. This supplies the resistance necessary for

the grub to draw up its back and push. Thus a step forward is made.

Each thrust of the motor-blister helps the little Decticus upon the

upward path.



It is pitiful to see this tender creature, still almost colourless,

knocking with its swollen neck and ramming the rough soil. With flesh

that is not yet hardened it is painfully fighting stone; and fighting

it so successfully that in the space of a morning it makes a gallery,

either straight or winding, an inch long and as wide as an average

straw. In this way the harassed insect reaches the surface.



Before it is altogether freed from the soil the struggler halts for a

moment, to recover from the effects of the journey. Then, with renewed

strength, it makes a last effort: it swells the protrusion at the back

of its head as far as it will go, and bursts the sheath that has

protected it so far. The creature throws off its overall.



Here, then, is the Decticus in his youthful shape, quite pale still,

but darker the next day, and a regular blackamoor compared with the

full-grown insect. As a prelude to the ivory face of his riper age he

wears a narrow white stripe under his hinder thighs.



Little Decticus, hatched before my eyes, life opens for you very

harshly! Many of your relatives must die of exhaustion before winning

their freedom. In my tubes I see numbers who, being stopped by a grain

of sand, give up the struggle half-way and become furred with a sort of

silky fluff. Mildew soon absorbs their poor little remains. And when

carried out without my help, their journey to the surface must be even

more dangerous, for the soil out of doors is coarse and baked by the

sun.



The little white-striped nigger nibbles at the lettuce-leaf I give him,

and leaps about gaily in the cage where I have housed him. I could

easily rear him, but he would not teach me much more. So I restore him

to liberty. In return for what he has taught me I give him the grass

and the Locusts in the garden.



For he taught me that Grasshoppers, in order to leave the ground where

the eggs are laid, wear a temporary form which keeps those too cumbrous

parts, the long legs and antennæ, swathed together in a sheath. He

taught me, too, that this mummy-like creature, fit only to lengthen and

shorten itself a little, has for its means of travelling a hernia in

the neck, a throbbing blister—an original piece of mechanism which,

when I first observed the Decticus, I had never seen used as an aid to

progression.

















CHAPTER X



COMMON WASPS





I



THEIR CLEVERNESS AND STUPIDITY



Wishing to observe a Wasp’s nest I go out, one day in September, with

my little son Paul, who helps me with his good sight and his undivided

attention. We look with interest at the edges of the footpaths.



Suddenly Paul cries: “A Wasp’s nest! A Wasp’s nest, as sure as

anything!” For, twenty yards away, he has seen rising from the ground,

shooting up and flying away, now one and then another swiftly moving

object, as though some tiny crater in the grass were hurling them

forth.



We approach the spot with caution, fearing to attract the attention of

the fierce creatures. At the entrance-door of their dwelling, a round

opening large enough to admit a man’s thumb, the inmates come and go,

busily passing one another as they fly in opposite directions. Burr! A

shudder runs through me at the thought of the unpleasant time we should

have, did we incite these irritable warriors to attack us by inspecting

them too closely. Without further investigation, which might cost us

too dear, we mark the spot, and resolve to return at nightfall. By that

time all the inhabitants of the nest will have come home from the

fields.



The conquest of a nest of Common Wasps would be rather a serious

undertaking if one did not act with a certain amount of prudence. Half

a pint of petrol, a reed-stump nine inches long, and a good-sized lump

of clay or loam, kneaded to the right consistency—such are my weapons,

which I have come to consider the best and simplest, after various

trials with less successful means.



The suffocating method is necessary, unless I use costly measures which

I cannot afford. When Réaumur wanted to place a live Wasp’s nest in a

glass case with a view to observing the habits of the inmates, he

employed helpers who were used to the painful job, and were willing,

for a handsome reward, to serve the man of science at the cost of their

skins. But I, who should have to pay with my own skin, think twice

before digging up the nest I desire. I begin by suffocating the

inhabitants. Dead Wasps do not sting. It is a brutal method, but

perfectly safe.



I use petrol because its effects are not too violent, and in order to

make my observations I wish to leave a small number of survivors. The

question is how to introduce it into the cavity containing the Wasp’s

nest. A vestibule, or entrance-passage, about nine inches long, and

very nearly horizontal, leads to the underground cells. To pour the

petrol straight into the mouths of this tunnel would be a blunder that

might have serious consequences later on. For so small a quantity of

petrol would be absorbed by the soil and would never reach the nest;

and next day, when we might think we were digging safely, we should

find an infuriated swarm under the spade.



The bit of reed prevents this mishap. When inserted into the passage it

forms a water-tight funnel, and carries the petrol to the cavern

without the loss of a drop, and as quickly as possible. Then we fix the

lump of kneaded clay into the entrance-hole, like a stopper. We have

nothing to do now but wait.



When we are going to perform this operation Paul and I set out,

carrying a lantern and a basket with the implements, at nine o’clock on

some mild, moonlit evening. While the farmhouse Dogs are yelping at

each other in the distance, and the Screech Owl is hooting in the

olive-trees, and the Italian Crickets are performing their symphony in

the bushes, Paul and I chat about insects. He asks questions, eager to

learn, and I tell him the little that I know. So delightful are our

nights of Wasp-hunting that we think little of the loss of sleep or the

chance of being stung!



The pushing of the reed into the hole is the most delicate matter.

Since the direction of the passage is unknown there is some hesitation,

and sometimes sentries come flying out of the Wasp’s guard-house to

attack the operator’s hand. To prevent this one of us keeps watch, and

drives away the enemy with a handkerchief. And after all, a swelling on

one’s hand, even if it does smart, is not much to pay for an idea.



As the petrol streams into the cavern we hear the threatening buzz of

the population underground. Then quick!—the door must be closed with

the wet clay, and the clod kicked once or twice with the heel to make

the stopper solid. There is nothing more to be done for the present.

Off we go to bed.



With a spade and a trowel we are back on the spot at dawn. It is wise

to be early, because many Wasps will have been out all night, and will

want to get into their home while we are digging. The chill of the

morning will make them less fierce.



In front of the entrance-passage, in which the reed is still sticking,

we dig a trench wide enough to allow us free movement. Then the side of

this ditch is carefully cut away, slice after slice, until, at a depth

of about twenty inches, the Wasp’s nest is revealed, uninjured, slung

from the roof of a spacious cavity.



It is indeed a superb achievement, as large as a fair-sized pumpkin. It

hangs free on every side except at the top, where various roots, mostly

of couch-grass, penetrate the thickness of the wall and fasten the nest

firmly. Its shape is round wherever the ground has been soft, and of

the same consistency all through. In stony soil, where the Wasps meet

with obstacles in their digging, the sphere becomes more or less

misshapen.



A space of a hand’s-breadth is always left open between the paper nest

and the sides of the underground vault. This space is the wide street

along which the builders move unhindered at their continual task of

enlarging and strengthening the nest, and the passage that leads to the

outer world opens into it. Underneath the nest is a much larger

unoccupied space, rounded into a big basin, so that the wrapper of the

nest can be enlarged as fresh cells are added. This cavity also serves

as a dust-bin for refuse.



The cavity was dug by the Wasps themselves. Of that there is no doubt;

for holes so large and so regular do not exist ready-made. The original

foundress of the nest may have seized on some cavity made by a Mole, to

help her at the beginning; but the greater part of the enormous vault

was the work of the Wasps. Yet there is not a scrap of rubbish outside

the entrance. Where is the mass of earth that has been removed?



It has been spread over such a large surface of ground that it is

unnoticed. Thousands and thousands of Wasps work at digging the cellar,

and enlarging it as that becomes necessary. They fly up to the outer

world, each carrying a particle of earth, which they drop on the ground

at some distance from the nest, in all directions. Being scattered in

this way the earth leaves no visible trace.



The Wasp’s nest is made of a thin, flexible material like brown paper,

formed of particles of wood. It is streaked with bands, of which the

colour varies according to the wood used. If it were made in a single

continuous sheet it would give little protection against the cold. But

the Common Wasp, like the ballon-maker, knows that heat may be

preserved by means of a cushion of air contained by several wrappers.

So she makes her paper-pulp into broad scales, which overlap loosely

and are laid on in numerous layers. The whole forms a coarse blanket,

thick and spongy in texture and well filled with stagnant air. The

temperature under this shelter must be truly tropical in hot weather.



The fierce Hornet, chief of the Wasps, builds her nest on the same

principle. In the hollow of a willow, or within some empty granary, she

makes, out of fragments of wood, a very brittle kind of striped yellow

cardboard. Her nest is wrapped round with many layers of this

substance, laid on in the form of broad convex scales which are welded

to one another. Between them are wide intervals in which air is held

motionless.



The Wasp, then, often acts in accordance with the laws of physics and

geometry. She employs air, a non-conductor of heat, to keep her home

warm; she made blankets before man thought of it; she builds the outer

walls of the nest in the shape that gives her the largest amount of

room in the smallest wrapper; and in the form of her cell, too, she

economises space and material.



And yet, clever as these wonderful architects are, they amaze us by

their stupidity in the face of the smallest difficulty. On the one hand

their instincts teach them to behave like men of science; but on the

other it is plain that they are entirely without the power of

reflection. I have convinced myself of this fact by various

experiments.



The Common Wasp has chanced to set up house beside one of the walks in

my enclosure, which enables me to experiment with a bell-glass. In the

open fields I could not use this appliance, because the boys of the

countryside would soon smash it. One night, when all was dark and the

Wasps had gone home, I placed the glass over the entrance of the

burrow, after first flattening the soil. When the Wasps began work

again next morning and found themselves checked in their flight, would

they succeed in making a passage under the rim of the glass? Would

these sturdy creatures, who were capable of digging a spacious cavern,

realise that a very short underground tunnel would set them free? That

was the question.



The next morning I found the bright sunlight falling on the bell-glass,

and the workers ascending in crowds from underground, eager to go in

search of provisions. They butted against the transparent wall, tumbled

down, picked themselves up again, and whirled round and round in a

crazy swarm. Some, weary of dancing, wandered peevishly at random and

then re-entered their dwelling. Others took their places as the sun

grew hotter. But not one of them, not a single one, scratched with her

feet at the base of the glass circle. This means of escape was beyond

them.



Meanwhile a few Wasps who had spent the night out of doors were coming

in from the fields. Round and round the bell-glass they flew; and at

last, after much hesitation, one of them decided to dig under the edge.

Others followed her example, a passage was easily opened, and the Wasps

went in. Then I closed the passage with some earth. The narrow opening,

if seen from within, might help the Wasps to escape, and I wished to

leave the prisoners the honour of winning their liberty.



However poor the Wasps’ power of reasoning, I thought their escape was

now probable. Those who had just entered would surely show the way;

they would teach the others to dig below the wall of glass.



I was too hasty. Of learning by experience or example there was not a

sign. Inside the glass not an attempt was made to dig a tunnel. The

insect population whirled round and round, but showed no enterprise.

They floundered about, while every day numbers died from famine and

heat. At the end of a week not one was left alive. A heap of corpses

covered the ground.



The Wasps returning from the field could find their way in, because the

power of scenting their house through the soil, and searching for it,

is one of their natural instincts, one of the means of defence given to

them. There is no need for thought or reasoning here: the earthy

obstacle has been familiar to every Wasp since Wasps first came into

the world.



But those who are within the bell-glass have no such instinct to help

them. Their aim is to get into the light, and finding daylight in their

transparent prison they think their aim is accomplished. In spite of

constant collisions with the glass they spend themselves in vainly

trying to fly farther in the direction of the sunshine. There is

nothing in the past to teach them what to do. They keep blindly to

their familiar habits, and die.









II



SOME OF THEIR HABITS



If we open the thick envelope of the nest we shall find, inside, a

number of combs, or layers of cells, lying one below the other and

fastened together by solid pillars. The number of these layers varies.

Towards the end of the season there may be ten, or even more. The

opening of the cells is on the lower surface. In this strange world the

young grow, sleep, and receive their food head downwards.



The various storeys, or layers of combs, are divided by open spaces;

and between the outer envelope and the stack of combs there are

doorways through which every part can be easily reached. There is a

continual coming and going of nurses, attending to the grubs in the

cells. On one side of the outer wrapper is the gate of the city, a

modest unadorned opening, lost among the thin scales of the envelope.

Facing it is the entrance to the tunnel that leads from the cavity to

the world at large.



In a Wasp community there is a large number of Wasps whose whole life

is spent in work. It is their business to enlarge the nest as the

population grows; and though they have no grubs of their own, they

nurse the grubs in the cells with the greatest care and industry.

Wishing to watch their operations, and also to see what would take

place at the approach of winter, I placed under cover one October a few

fragments of a nest, containing a large number of eggs and grubs, with

about a hundred workers to take care of them.



To make my inspection easier I separated the combs and placed them side

by side, with the openings of the cells turned upwards. This

arrangement, the reverse of the usual position, did not seem to annoy

my prisoners, who soon recovered from the disturbance and set to work

as if nothing had happened. In case they should wish to build I gave

them a slip of soft wood; and I fed them with honey. The underground

cave in which the nest hangs out of doors was represented by a large

earthen pan under a wire-gauze cover. A removable cardboard dome

provided darkness for the Wasps, and—when removed—light for me.



The Wasps’ work went on as if it had never been interrupted. The

worker-Wasps attended to the grubs and the building at the same time.

They began to raise a wall round the most thickly populated combs; and

it seemed as though they might intend to build a new envelope, to

replace the one ruined by my spade. But they were not repairing; they

were simply carrying on the work from the point at which I interrupted

it. Over about a third of the comb they made an arched roof of paper

scales, which would have been joined to the envelope of the nest if it

had been intact. The tent they made sheltered only a small part of the

disk of cells.



As for the wood I provided for them, they did not touch it. To this raw

material, which would have been troublesome to work, they preferred the

old cells that were no longer in use. In these the fibres were already

prepared; and, with a little saliva and a little grinding in their

mandibles, they turned them into pulp of the highest quality. The

uninhabited cells were nibbled into pieces, and out of the ruins a sort

of canopy was built. New cells could be made in the same way if

necessary.



Even more interesting than this roofing-work is the feeding of the

grubs. One could never weary of the sight of the rough fighters turned

into tender nurses. The barracks become a crêche. With what care those

grubs are reared! If we watch one of the busy Wasps we shall see her,

with her crop swollen with honey, halt in front of a cell. With a

thoughtful air she bends her head into the opening, and touches the

grub with the tip of her antenna. The grub wakes and gapes at her, like

a fledgling when the mother-bird returns to the nest with food.



For a moment the awakened larva swings its head to and fro: it is

blind, and is trying to feel the food brought to it. The two mouths

meet; a drop of syrup passes from the nurse’s mouth to the nurseling’s.

That is enough for the moment: now for the next Wasp-baby. The nurse

moves on, to continue her duties elsewhere.



Meanwhile the grub is licking the base of its own neck. For, while it

is being fed, there appears a temporary swelling on its chest, which

acts as a bib, and catches whatever trickles down from the mouth. After

swallowing the chief part of the meal the grub gathers up the crumbs

that have fallen on its bib. Then the swelling disappears; and the

grub, withdrawing a little way into its cell, resumes its sweet

slumbers.



When fed in my cage the Wasp-grubs have their heads up, and what falls

from their mouths collects naturally on their bibs. When fed in the

nest they have their heads down. But I have no doubt that even in this

position the bib serves its purpose.



By slightly bending its head the grub can always deposit on the

projecting bib a portion of the overflowing mouthful, which is sticky

enough to remain there. Moreover, it is quite possible that the nurse

herself places a portion of her helping on this spot. Whether it be

above or below the mouth, right way up or upside down, the bib fulfils

its office because of the sticky nature of the food. It is a temporary

saucer which shortens the work of serving out the rations, and enables

the grub to feed in a more or less leisurely fashion and without too

much gluttony.



In the open country, late in the year when fruit is scarce, the grubs

are mostly fed upon minced Fly; but in my cages everything is refused

but honey. Both nurses and nurselings seem to thrive on this diet, and

if any intruder ventures too near to the combs he is doomed. Wasps, it

appears, are far from hospitable. Even the Polistes, an insect who is

absolutely like a Wasp in shape and colour, is at once recognised and

mobbed if she approaches the honey the Wasps are sipping. Her

appearance takes nobody in for a moment, and unless she hastily retires

she will meet with a violent death. No, it is not a good thing to enter

a Wasps’ nest, even when the stranger wears the same uniform, pursues

the same industry, and is almost a member of the same corporation.



Again and again I have seen the savage reception given to strangers. If

the stranger be of sufficient importance he is stabbed, and his body is

dragged from the nest and flung into the refuse-heap below. But the

poisoned dagger seems to be reserved for great occasions. If I throw

the grub of a Saw-fly among the Wasps they show great surprise at the

black-and-green dragon; they snap at it boldly, and wound it, but

without stinging it. They try to haul it away. The dragon resists,

anchoring itself to the comb by its hooks, holding on now by its

fore-legs and now by its hind-legs. At last the grub, however, weakened

by its wounds, is torn from the comb and dragged bleeding to the

refuse-pit. It has taken a couple of hours to dislodge it.



Supposing, on the other hand, I throw on to the combs a certain

imposing grub that lives under the bark of cherry-trees, five or six

Wasps will at once prick it with their stings. In a couple of minutes

it is dead. But the huge dead body is much too heavy to be carried out

of the nest. So the Wasps, finding they cannot move the grub, eat it

where it lies, or at least reduce its weight till they can drag the

remains outside the walls.









III



THEIR SAD END



Protected in this fierce way against the invasion of intruders, and fed

with excellent honey, the grubs in my cage prosper greatly. But of

course there are exceptions. In the Wasps’ nest, as everywhere, there

are weaklings who are cut down before their time.



I see these puny sufferers refuse their food and slowly pine away. The

nurses perceive it even more clearly. They bend their heads over the

invalid, sound it with their antennæ, and pronounce it incurable. Then

the creature at the point of death is torn ruthlessly from its cell and

dragged outside the nest. In the brutal commonwealth of the Wasps the

invalid is merely a piece of rubbish, to be got rid of as soon as

possible for fear of contagion. Nor indeed is this the worst. As winter

draws near the Wasps foresee their fate. They know their end is at

hand.



The first cold nights of November bring a change in the nest. The

building proceeds with diminished enthusiasm; the visits to the pool of

honey are less constant. Household duties are relaxed. Grubs gaping

with hunger receive tardy relief, or are even neglected. Profound

uneasiness seizes upon the nurses. Their former devotion is succeeded

by indifference, which soon turns to dislike. What is the good of

continuing attentions which soon will be impossible? A time of famine

is coming; the nurselings in any case must die a tragic death. So the

tender nurses become savage executioners.



“Let us leave no orphans,” they say to themselves; “no one would care

for them after we are gone. Let us kill everything, eggs and grubs

alike. A violent end is better than a slow death by starvation.”



A massacre follows. The grubs are seized by the scruff of the neck,

brutally torn from their cells, dragged out of the nest, and thrown

into the refuse-heap at the bottom of the cave. The nurses, or workers,

root them out of their cells as violently as though they were strangers

or dead bodies. They tug at them savagely and tear them. Then the eggs

are ripped open and devoured.



Before much longer the nurses themselves, the executioners, are

languidly dragging what remains of their lives. Day by day, with a

curiosity mingled with emotion, I watch the end of my insects. The

workers die suddenly. They come to the surface, slip down, fall on

their backs and rise no more, as if they were struck by lightning. They

have had their day; they are slain by age, that merciless poison. Even

so does a piece of clockwork become motionless when its mainspring has

unwound its last spiral.



The workers are old: but the mothers are the last to be born into the

nest, and have all the vigour of youth. And so, when winter sickness

seizes them, they are capable of a certain resistance. Those whose end

is near are easily distinguished from the others by the disorder of

their appearance. Their backs are dusty. While they are well they dust

themselves without ceasing, and their black-and-yellow coats are kept

perfectly glossy. Those who are ailing are careless of cleanliness;

they stand motionless in the sun or wander languidly about. They no

longer brush their clothes.



This indifference to dress is a bad sign. Two or three days later the

dusty female leaves the nest for the last time. She goes outside, to

enjoy yet a little of the sunlight; presently she slides quietly to the

ground and does not get up again. She declines to die in her beloved

paper home, where the code of the Wasps ordains absolute cleanliness.

The dying Wasp performs her own funeral rites by dropping herself into

the pit at the bottom of the cavern. For reasons of health these stoics

refuse to die in the actual house, among the combs. The last survivors

retain this repugnance to the very end. It is a law that never falls

into disuse, however greatly reduced the population may be.



My cage becomes emptier day by day, notwithstanding the mildness of the

room, and notwithstanding the saucer of honey at which the able-bodied

come to sip. At Christmas I have only a dozen females left. On the

sixth of January the last of them perishes.



Whence arises this mortality, which mows down the whole of my wasps?

They have not suffered from famine: they have not suffered from cold:

they have not suffered from home-sickness. Then what have they died of?



We must not blame their captivity. The same thing happens in the open

country. Various nests I have inspected at the end of December all show

the same condition. The vast majority of Wasps must die, apparently,

not by accident, nor illness, nor the inclemency of the season, but by

an inevitable destiny, which destroys them as energetically as it

brings them into life. And it is well for us that it is so. One female

Wasp is enough to found a city of thirty thousand inhabitants. If all

were to survive, what a scourge they would be! The Wasps would

tyrannise over the countryside.



In the end the nest itself perishes. A certain Caterpillar which later

on becomes a mean-looking Moth; a tiny reddish Beetle; and a scaly grub

clad in gold velvet, are the creatures that demolish it. They gnaw the

floors of the various storeys, and crumble the whole dwelling. A few

pinches of dust, a few shreds of brown paper are all that remain, by

the return of spring, of the Wasps’ city and its thirty thousand

inhabitants.

















CHAPTER XI



THE ADVENTURES OF A GRUB





I



THE YOUNG SITARIS



The high banks of sandy clay in the country round about Carpentras are

the favourite haunts of a host of Bees and Wasps, those lovers of a

sunny aspect and of soil that is easy to dig in. Here, in the month of

May, two Bees, both of them Mason-bees, builders of subterranean cells,

are especially abundant. One of them builds at the entrance of her

dwelling an advanced fortification, an earthly cylinder, wrought in

open work and curved, of the width and length of a man’s finger. When

it is peopled with many Bees one stands amazed at the elaborate

ornamentation formed by all these hanging fingers of clay.



The other Bee, who is very much more frequently seen and is called

Anthophora pilipes, leaves the opening of her corridor bare. The chinks

between the stones in old walls and abandoned hovels, or exposed

surfaces of sand stone or marl, are found suitable for her labours; but

the favourite spots, those to which the greatest number of swarms

resort, are straight stretches of ground exposed to the south, such as

occur in the cuttings of deeply-sunken roads. Here, over areas many

yards in width, the wall is drilled with a multitude of holes, which

give to the earthy mass the look of some enormous sponge. These round

holes might have been made with a gimlet, so regular are they. Each is

the entrance to a winding corridor, which runs to the depth of four or

five inches. The cells are at the far end. If we wish to watch the

labours of the industrious Bee we must visit her workshop during the

latter half of May. Then—but at a respectful distance—we may see, in

all its bewildering activity, the tumultuous, buzzing swarm, busied

with the building and provisioning of the cells.



But it has been most often during the months of August and September,

the happy months of the summer holidays, that I have visited the banks

inhabited by the Anthophora. At this season all is silent near the

nests: the work has long been completed: and numbers of Spiders’ webs

line the crevices or plunge their silken tubes into the Bees’

corridors. That is no reason, however, for hastily abandoning the city

that was once so full of life and bustle, and now appears deserted. A

few inches below the surface, thousands of grubs are imprisoned in

their cells of clay, resting until the coming spring. Surely these

grubs, which are paralysed and incapable of self-defence, must be a

temptation—fat little morsels as they are—to some kind of parasite,

some kind of insect stranger in search of prey. The matter is worth

inquiring into.



Two facts are at once noticeable. Some dismal-looking Flies, half black

and half white, are flying indolently from gallery to gallery,

evidently with the object of laying their eggs there. Many of them are

hanging dry and lifeless in the Spiders’ webs. At other places the

entire surface of a bank is hung with the dried corpses of a certain

Beetle, called the Sitaris. Among the corpses, however, are a few live

Beetles, both male and female. The female Beetle invariably disappears

into the Bees’ dwelling. Without a doubt she, too, lays her eggs there.



If we give a few blows of the pick to the surface of the bank we shall

find out something more about these things. During the early days of

August this is what we shall see: the cells forming the top layer are

unlike those at a greater depth. The difference is owing to the fact

that the same establishment is used by two kinds of Bee, the Anthophora

and the Osmia.



The Anthophoræ are the actual pioneers. The work of boring the

galleries is wholly theirs, and their cells are right at the end. If

they, for any reason, leave the outer cells, the Osmia comes in and

takes possession of them. She divides the corridors into unequal and

inartistic cells by means of rough earthen partitions, her only idea of

masonry.



The cells of the Anthophora are faultlessly regular and perfectly

finished. They are works of art, cut out of the very substance of the

earth, well out of reach of all ordinary enemies; and for this reason

the larva of this Bee has no means of spinning a cocoon. It lies naked

in the cell, whose inner surface is polished like stucco.



In the Osmia’s cells, however, means of defence are required, because

they are at the surface of the soil, are roughly made, and are badly

protected by their thin partitions. So the Osmia’s grubs enclose

themselves in a very strong cocoon, which preserves them both from the

rough sides of their shapeless cells and from the jaws of various

enemies who prowl about the galleries. It is easy, then, in a bank

inhabited by these two Bees, to recognise the cells belonging to each.

The Anthophora’s cells contain a naked grub: those of the Osmia contain

a grub enclosed in a cocoon.



Now each of these two Bees has its own especial parasite, or uninvited

guest. The parasite of the Osmia is the black-and-white Fly who is to

be seen so often at the entrance to the galleries, intent on laying her

eggs within them. The parasite of the Anthophora is the Sitaris, the

Beetle whose corpses appear in such quantities on the surface of the

bank.



If the layer of Osmia-cells be removed from the nest we can observe the

cells of the Anthophora. Some will be occupied by larvæ, some by the

perfect insect, and some—indeed many—will contain a singular egg-shaped

shell, divided into segments with projecting breathing-pores. This

shell is extremely thin and fragile; it is amber-coloured, and so

transparent that one can distinguish quite plainly through its sides a

full-grown Sitaris, struggling as though to set herself at liberty.



What is this curious shell, which does not appear to be a Beetle’s

shell at all? And how can this parasite reach a cell which seems to be

inaccessible because of its position, and in which the most careful

examination under the magnifying-glass reveals no sign of violence?

Three years of close observation enabled me to answer these questions,

and to add one of its most astonishing chapters to the story of insect

life. Here is the result of my inquiries.



The Sitaris in the full-grown state lives only for a day or two, and

its whole life is passed at the entrance to the Anthophora’s galleries.

It has no concern but the reproduction of the species. It is provided

with the usual digestive organs, but I have grave reasons to doubt

whether it actually takes any nourishment whatever. The female’s only

thought is to lay her eggs. This done, she dies. The male, after

cowering in a crevice for a day or two, also perishes. This is the

origin of all those corpses swinging in the Spiders’ web, with which

the neighbourhood of the Anthophora’s dwelling is upholstered.



At first sight one would expect that the Sitaris, when laying her eggs,

would go from cell to cell, confiding an egg to each of the Bee-grubs.

But when, in the course of my observations, I searched the Bees’

galleries, I invariably found the eggs of the Sitaris gathered in a

heap inside the entrance, at a distance of an inch or two from the

opening. They are white, oval, and very small, and they stick together

slightly. As for their number, I do not believe I am exaggerating when

I estimate it at two thousand at least.



Thus, contrary to what one was to some extent entitled to suppose, the

eggs are not laid in the cells of the Bee; they are simply dumped in a

heap inside the doorway of her dwelling. Nay more, the mother does not

make any protective structure for them; she takes no pains to shield

them from the rigours of winter; she does not even attempt to stop up

the entrance-lobby in which she has placed them, and so protect them

from the thousand enemies that threaten them. For as long as the frosts

of winter have not arrived these open galleries are trodden by Spiders

and other plunderers, for whom the eggs would make an agreeable meal.



The better to observe them, I placed a number of the eggs in boxes; and

when they hatched out about the end of September I imagined they would

at once start off in search of an Anthophora-cell. I was entirely

wrong. The young grubs—little black creatures no more than the

twenty-fifth of an inch long—did not move away, though provided with

vigorous legs. They remained higgledy-piggledy, mixed up with the skins

of the eggs whence they came. In vain I placed within their reach lumps

of earth containing open Bee-cells: nothing would tempt them to move.

If I forcibly removed a few from the common heap they at once hurried

back to it in order to hide themselves among the rest.



At last, to assure myself that the Sitaris-grubs, in the free state, do

not disperse after they are hatched, I went in the winter to Carpentras

and inspected the banks inhabited by the Anthophoræ. There, as in my

boxes, I found the grubs all piled up in heaps, all mixed up with the

skins of the eggs.



I was no nearer answering the question: how does the Sitaris get into

the Bees’ cells, and into a shell that does not belong to it?









II



THE FIRST ADVENTURE



The appearance of the young Sitaris showed me at once that its habits

must be peculiar. It could not, I saw, be called on to move on an

ordinary surface. The spot where this larva has to live evidently

exposes it to the risk of many dangerous falls, since, in order to

prevent them, it is equipped with a pair of powerful mandibles, curved

and sharp; robust legs which end in a long and very mobile claw; a

variety of bristles and probes; and a couple of strong spikes with

sharp, hard points—an elaborate mechanism, like a sort of ploughshare,

capable of biting into the most highly polished surface. Nor is this

all. It is further provided with a sticky liquid, sufficiently adhesive

to hold it in position without the help of other appliances. In vain I

racked my brains to guess what the substance might be, so shifting, so

uncertain, and so perilous, which the young Sitaris is destined to

inhabit. I waited with eager impatience for the return of the warm

weather.



At the end of April the young grubs imprisoned in my cages, hitherto

lying motionless and hidden in the spongy heap of egg-skins, suddenly

began to move. They scattered, and ran about in all directions through

the boxes and jars in which they have passed the winter. Their hurried

movements and untiring energy showed they were in search of something,

and the natural thing for them to seek was food. For these grubs were

hatched at the end of September, and since then, that is to say for

seven long months, they had taken no nourishment, although they were by

no means in a state of torpor. From the moment of their hatching they

are doomed, though full of life, to an absolute fast lasting for seven

months; and when I saw their excitement I naturally supposed that an

imperious hunger had set them bustling in that fashion.



The food they desired could only be the contents of the Anthophora’s

cells, since at a later stage the Sitaris is found in those cells. Now

these contents are limited to honey and Bee-grubs.



I offered them some cells containing larvæ: I even slipped the Sitares

into the cells, and did all sorts of things to tempt their appetite. My

efforts were fruitless. Then I tried honey. In hunting for cells

provisioned with honey I lost a good part of the month of May. Having

found them I removed the Bee-grub from some of them, and laid the

Sitaris-grub on the surface of the honey. Never did experiment break

down so completely! Far from eating the honey, the grubs became

entangled in the sticky mass and perished in it, suffocated. “I have

offered you larvæ, cells, honey!” I cried in despair. “Then what do you

want, you fiendish little creatures?”



Well, in the end I found out what they wanted. They wanted the

Anthophora herself to carry them into the cells!



When April comes, as I said before, the heap of grubs at the entrance

to the Bees’ cells begins to show signs of activity. A few days later

they are no longer there. Strange as it may appear, they are all

careering about the country, sometimes at a great distance, clinging

like grim death to the fleece of a Bee!



When the Anthophoræ pass by the entrance to their cells, on their way

either in or out, the young Sitaris-grub, who is lying in wait there,

attaches himself to one of the Bees. He wriggles into the fur and

clutches it so firmly that he need not fear a fall during the long

journeys of the insect that carries him. By thus attaching himself to

the Bee the Sitaris intends to get himself carried, at the right

moment, into a cell supplied with honey.



One might at first sight believe that these adventurous grubs derive

food for a time from the Bee’s body. But not at all. The young Sitares,

embedded in the fleece, at right angles to the body of the Anthophora,

head inwards, tail outwards, do not stir from the spot they have

selected, a point near the Bee’s shoulders. We do not see them

wandering from spot to spot, exploring the Bee’s body, seeking the part

where the skin is most delicate, as they would certainly do if they

were really feeding on the insect. On the contrary, they are always

fixed on the toughest and hardest part of the Bee’s body, a little

below the insertion of the wings, or sometimes on the head; and they

remain absolutely motionless, clinging to a single hair. It seems to me

undeniable that the young Sitares settle on the Bee merely to make her

carry them into the cells that she will soon be building.



But in the meantime the future parasites must hold tight to the fleece

of their hostess, in spite of her rapid flights among the flowers, in

spite of her rubbing against the walls of the galleries when she enters

to take shelter, and in spite, above all, of the brushing which she

must often give herself with her feet, to dust herself and keep spick

and span. We were wondering a little time ago what the dangerous,

shifting thing could be on which the grub would have to establish

itself. That thing is the hair of a Bee who makes a thousand rapid

journeys, now diving into her narrow galleries, now forcing her way

down the tight throat of a flower.



We can now quite understand the use of the two spikes, which close

together and are able to take hold of hair more easily than the most

delicate tweezers. We can see the full value of the sticky liquid that

helps the tiny creature to hold fast; and we can realise that the

elastic probes and bristles on the legs serve to penetrate the Bee’s

down and anchor the grub in position. The more one considers this

arrangement, which seems so useless as the grub drags itself

laboriously over a smooth surface, the more does one marvel at all the

machinery which this fragile creature carries about to save it from

falling during its adventurous rides.









III



THE SECOND ADVENTURE



One 21st of May I went to Carpentras, determined to see, if possible,

the entrance of the Sitaris into the Bee’s cells.



The works were in full swing. In front of a high expanse of earth a

swarm of Bees, stimulated by the sun, was dancing a crazy ballet. From

the tumultuous heart of the cloud rose a monotonous, threatening

murmur, while my bewildered eye tried to follow the movements of the

throng. Quick as a lightning-flash thousands of Anthophoræ were flying

hither and thither in search of booty: thousands of others, also, were

arriving, laden with honey, or with mortar for their building.



At that time I knew comparatively little about these insects. It seemed

to me that any one who ventured into the swarm, or—above all—who laid a

rash hand on the Bees’ dwellings, would instantly be stabbed by a

thousand stings. I had once observed the combs of the Hornet too

closely; and a shiver of fear passed through me.



Yet, to find out what I wished to know, I must needs penetrate that

fearsome swarm; I must stand for whole hours, perhaps all day, watching

the works I intended to upset; lens in hand, I must examine, unmoved

amid the whirl, the things that were happening in the cells. Moreover,

the use of a mask, of gloves, of a covering of any kind, was out of the

question, for my fingers and eyes must be absolutely free. No matter:

even though I should leave the Bee’s nest with my face swollen beyond

recognition, I was determined that day to solve the problem that had

puzzled me too long.



Having caught a few stray Anthophoræ with my net, I satisfied myself

that the Sitaris-larvae were perched, as I expected, on the Bees.



I buttoned my coat tightly and entered the heart of the swarm. With a

few blows of the mattock I secured a lump of earth, and to my great

surprise found myself uninjured. A second expedition, longer than the

first, had the same result: not a Bee touched me with her sting. After

this I remained permanently in front of the nest, removing lumps of

earth, spilling the honey, and crushing the Bees, without arousing

anything worse than a louder hum. For the Anthophora is a pacific

creature. When disturbed in the cells it leaves them hastily and

escapes, sometimes even mortally wounded, without using its venomous

sting except when it is seized and handled.



Thanks to this unexpected lack of spirit in the Mason-bee, I was able

for hours to investigate her cells at my leisure, seated on a stone in

the midst of the murmuring and distracted swarm, without receiving a

single sting, though I took no precautions whatever. Country folk,

happening to pass and seeing me seated thus calmly amid the Bees,

stopped aghast to ask me if I had bewitched them.



In this way I examined the cells. Some were still open, and contained

only a more or less complete store of honey. Others were closely sealed

with an earthen lid. The contents of these varied greatly. Sometimes I

found the larva of a Bee; sometimes another, fatter kind of larva; at

other times honey with an egg floating on the surface. The egg was of a

beautiful white, and was shaped like a cylinder with a slight curve, a

fifth or sixth of an inch in length—the egg of the Anthophora.



In a few cells I found this egg floating all alone on the surface of

the honey: in others, very many others, I saw, lying on the Bee’s egg

as though on a sort of raft, a young Sitaris-grub. Its shape and size

were those of the creature when it is hatched. Here, then, was the

enemy within the gates.



When and how did it get in? In none of the cells was I able to detect

any chink by which it could have entered: they were all sealed quite

tightly. The parasite must have established itself in the

honey-warehouse before the warehouse was closed. On the other hand, the

open cells, full of honey but as yet without an egg, never contain a

Sitaris. The grub must therefore gain admittance either while the Bee

is laying the egg, or else afterwards, while she is busy plastering up

the door. My experiments have convinced me that the Sitaris enters the

cell in the very second when the egg is laid on the surface of the

honey.



If I take a cell full of honey, with an egg floating in it, and place

it in a glass tube with some Sitaris-grubs, they very rarely venture

inside it. They cannot reach the raft in safety: the honey that

surrounds it is too dangerous. If one of them by chance approaches the

honey it tries to escape as soon as it sees the sticky nature of the

stuff under its feet. It often ends by falling back into the cell,

where it dies of suffocation. It is therefore certain that the grub

does not leave the fleece of the Bee when the latter is in her cell or

near it, in order to make a rush for the honey; for this honey would

inevitably cause its death, if it so much as touched the surface.



We must remember that the young Sitaris which is found in a closed cell

is always placed on the egg of the Bee. This egg not only serves as a

raft for the tiny creature floating on a very treacherous lake, but

also provides it with its first meal. To get at this egg, in the centre

of the lake of honey, to reach this raft which is also its first food,

the young grub must somehow contrive to avoid the fatal touch of the

honey.



There is only one way in which this can be done. The clever grub, at

the very moment when the Bee is laying her egg, slips off the Bee and

on to the egg, and with it reaches the surface of the honey. The egg is

too small to hold more than one grub, and that is why we never find

more than one Sitaris in a cell. Such a performance on the part of a

grub seems extraordinarily inspired—but then the study of insects

constantly gives us examples of such inspiration.



When dropping her egg upon the honey, then, the Anthophora at the same

time drops into her cell the mortal enemy of her race. She carefully

plasters the lid which closes the entrance to the cell, and all is

done. A second cell is built beside it, probably to suffer the same

fate; and so on until all the parasites sheltered by her fleece are

comfortably housed. Let us leave the unhappy mother to continue her

fruitless task, and turn our attention to the young larva which has so

cleverly secured for itself board and lodging.



Let us suppose that we remove the lid from a cell in which the egg,

recently laid, supports a Sitaris-grub. The egg is intact and in

perfect condition. But now the work of destruction begins. The grub, a

tiny black speck which we see running over the white surface of the

egg, at last stops and balances itself firmly on its six legs; then,

seizing the delicate skin of the egg with the sharp hooks of its

mandibles, it tugs at it violently till it breaks and spills the

contents. These contents the grub eagerly drinks up. Thus the first

stroke of the parasite’s mandibles is aimed at the destruction of the

Bee’s egg.



This is a very wise precaution on the part of the Sitaris-grub! It will

have to feed on the honey in the cell: the Bee’s grub which would come

out of the egg would also require the honey: there is not enough for

two. So—quick!—a bite at the egg, and the difficulty is removed.



Moreover, another reason for the destruction of the egg is that special

tastes compel the young Sitaris to make its first meals of it. The tiny

creature begins by greedily drinking the juices which the torn wrapper

of the egg allows to escape. For several days it continues to rip the

envelope gradually open, and to feed on the liquid that trickles from

it. Meanwhile it never touches the honey that surrounds it. The Bee’s

egg is absolutely necessary to the Sitaris-grub, not merely as a boat,

but also as nourishment.



At the end of a week the egg is nothing but a dry skin. The first meal

is finished. The Sitaris-grub, which is now twice as large as before,

splits open along the back, and through this slit the second form of

this singular Beetle falls on the surface of the honey. Its cast skin

remains on the raft, and will presently disappear with it beneath the

waves of honey.



Here ends the history of the first form adopted by the Sitaris.

















CHAPTER XII



THE CRICKET





I



THE HOUSEHOLDER



The Field Cricket, the inhabitant of the meadows, is almost as famous

as the Cicada, and figures among the limited but glorious number of the

classic insects. He owes this honour to his song and his house. One

thing alone is lacking to complete his renown. The master of the art of

making animals talk, La Fontaine, gives him hardly two lines.



Florian, the other French writer of fables, gives us a story of a

Cricket, but it lacks the simplicity of truth and the saving salt of

humour. Besides, it represents the Cricket as discontented, bewailing

his condition! This is a preposterous idea, for all who have studied

him know, on the contrary, that he is very well pleased with his own

talent and his own burrow. And indeed, at the end of the story, Florian

makes him admit:





        “My snug little home is a place of delight;

        If you want to live happy, live hidden from sight!”





I find more force and truth in some verses by a friend of mine, of

which these are a translation:





        Among the beasts a tale is told

          How a poor Cricket ventured nigh

        His door to catch the sun’s warm gold

          And saw a radiant Butterfly.



        She passed with tails thrown proudly back

          And long gay rows of crescents blue,

        Brave yellow stars and bands of black,

          The lordliest Fly that ever flew.



        “Ah, fly away,” the hermit said,

          “Daylong among your flowers to roam;

        Nor daisies white nor roses red

          Will compensate my lowly home.”



        True, all too true! There came a storm

          And caught the Fly within its flood,

        Staining her broken velvet form

          And covering her wings with mud.



        The Cricket, sheltered from the rain,

          Chirped, and looked on with tranquil eye;

        For him the thunder pealed in vain,

          The gale and torrent passed him by.



        Then shun the world, nor take your fill

          Of any of its joys or flowers;

        A lowly fireside, calm and still,

          At least will grant you tearless hours! [2]





There I recognise my Cricket. I see him curling his antennæ on the

threshold of his burrow, keeping himself cool in front and warm at the

back. He is not jealous of the Butterfly; on the contrary, he pities

her, with that air of mocking commiseration we often see in those who

have houses of their own when they are talking to those who have none.

Far from complaining, he is very well satisfied both with his house and

his violin. He is a true philosopher: he knows the vanity of things and

feels the charm of a modest retreat away from the riot of

pleasure-seekers.



Yes, the description is about right, as far as it goes. But the Cricket

is still waiting for the few lines needed to bring his merits before

the public; and since La Fontaine neglected him, he will have to go on

waiting a long time.



To me, as a naturalist, the important point in the two fables is the

burrow on which the moral is founded. Florian speaks of the snug

retreat; the other praises his lowly home. It is the dwelling,

therefore, that above all compels attention, even that of the poet, who

as a rule cares little for realities.



In this matter, indeed, the Cricket is extraordinary. Of all our

insects he is the only one who, when full-grown, possesses a fixed

home, the reward of his own industry. During the bad season of the

year, most of the others burrow or skulk in some temporary refuge, a

refuge obtained free of cost and abandoned without regret. Several of

them create marvels with a view to settling their family: cotton

satchels, baskets made of leaves, towers of cement. Some live

permanently in ambush, lying in wait for their prey. The Tiger-beetle,

for instance, digs himself a perpendicular hole, which he stops up with

his flat, bronze head. If any other insect steps on this deceptive

trap-door it immediately tips up, and the unhappy wayfarer disappears

into the gulf. The Ant-lion makes a slanting funnel in the sand. Its

victim, the Ant, slides down the slant and is then stoned, from the

bottom of the funnel, by the hunter, who turns his neck into a

catapult. But these are all temporary refuges or traps.



The laboriously constructed home, in which the insect settles down with

no intention of moving, either in the happy spring or in the woeful

winter season; the real manor-house, built for peace and comfort, and

not as a hunting-box or a nursery—this is known to the Cricket alone.

On some sunny, grassy slope he is the owner of a hermitage. While all

the others lead vagabond lives, sleeping in the open air or under the

casual shelter of a dead leaf or a stone, or the pealing bark of an old

tree, he is a privileged person with a permanent address.



The making of a home is a serious problem. It has been solved by the

Cricket, by the Rabbit, and lastly by man. In my neighbourhood the Fox

and the Badger have holes, which are largely formed by the

irregularities of the rock. A few repairs, and the dug-out is

completed. The Rabbit is cleverer than these, for he builds his house

by burrowing wherever he pleases, when there is no natural passage that

allows him to settle down free of all trouble.



The Cricket is cleverer than any of them. He scorns chance refuges, and

always chooses the site of his home carefully, in well-drained ground,

with a pleasant sunny aspect. He refuses to make use of ready-made

caves that are inconvenient and rough: he digs every bit of his villa,

from the entrance-hall to the back-room.



I see no one above him, in the art of house-building, except man; and

even man, before mixing mortar to hold stones together, or kneading

clay to coat his hut of branches, fought with wild beasts for a refuge

in the rocks. Why is it that a special instinct is bestowed on one

particular creature? Here is one of the humblest of creatures able to

lodge himself to perfection. He has a home, an advantage unknown to

many civilised beings; he has a peaceful retreat, the first condition

of comfort; and no one around him is capable of settling down. He has

no rivals but ourselves.



Whence does he derive this gift? Is he favoured with special tools? No,

the Cricket is not an expert in the art of digging; in fact, one is

rather surprised at the result when one considers the feebleness of his

means.



Is a home a necessity to him, on account of an exceptionally delicate

skin? No, his near kinsmen have skins as sensitive as his, yet do not

dread the open air at all.



Is the house-building talent the result of his anatomy? Has he any

special organ that suggests it? No: in my neighbourhood there are three

other Crickets who are so much like the Field Cricket in appearance,

colour, and structure, that at the first glance one would take them for

him. Of these faithful copies, not one knows how to dig himself a

burrow. The Double-spotted Cricket inhabits the heaps of grass that are

left to rot in damp places; the Solitary Cricket roams about the dry

clods turned up by the gardener’s spade; the Bordeaux Cricket is not

afraid to make his way into our houses, where he sings discreetly,

during August and September, in some cool, dark spot.



There is no object in continuing these questions: the answer would

always be No. Instinct never tells us its causes. It depends so little

on an insect’s stock of tools that no detail of anatomy, nothing in the

creature’s formation, can explain it to us or make us foresee it. These

four similar Crickets, of whom only one can burrow, are enough to show

us our ignorance of the origin of instinct.



Who does not know the Cricket’s house? Who has not, as a child playing

in the fields, stopped in front of the hermit’s cabin? However light

your footfall, he has heard you coming, and has abruptly withdrawn to

the very bottom of his hiding-place. When you arrive, the threshold of

the house is deserted.



Every one knows the way to bring out the skulker. You insert a straw

and move it gently about the burrow. Surprised at what is happening

above, the tickled and teased Cricket ascends from his back room; he

stops in the passage, hesitates, and waves his delicate antennæ

inquiringly. He comes to the light, and, once outside, he is easy to

catch, since these events have puzzled his poor head. Should he be

missed at the first attempt he may become suspicious and refuse to

appear. In that case he can be flooded out with a glass of water.



Those were adorable times when we were children, and hunted Crickets

along the grassy paths, and put them in cages, and fed them on a leaf

of lettuce. They all come back to me to-day, those times, as I search

the burrows for subjects to study. They seem like yesterday when my

companion, little Paul, an expert in the use of the straw, springs up

suddenly after a long trial of skill and patience, and cries excitedly:

“I’ve got him! I’ve got him!”



Quick, here’s a bag! In you go, my little Cricket! You shall be petted

and pampered, but you must teach us something, and first of all you

must show us your house.









II



HIS HOUSE



It is a slanting gallery in the grass, on some sunny bank which soon

dries after a shower. It is nine inches long at most, hardly as thick

as one’s finger, and straight or bent according to the nature of the

ground. As a rule, a tuft of grass half conceals the home, serving as a

porch and throwing the entrance discreetly into shadow. When the

Cricket goes out to browse upon the surrounding turf he does not touch

this tuft. The gently sloping threshold, carefully raked and swept,

extends for some distance; and this is the terrace on which, when

everything is peaceful round about, the Cricket sits and scrapes his

fiddle.



The inside of the house is devoid of luxury, with bare and yet not

coarse walls. The inhabitant has plenty of leisure to do away with any

unpleasant roughness. At the end of the passage is the bedroom, a

little more carefully smoothed than the rest, and slightly wider. All

said, it is a very simple abode, exceedingly clean, free from damp, and

conforming to the rules of hygiene. On the other hand, it is an

enormous undertaking, a gigantic tunnel, when we consider the modest

tools with which the Cricket has to dig. If we wish to know how he does

it, and when he sets to work, we must go back to the time when the egg

is laid.



The Cricket lays her eggs singly in the soil, like the Decticus, at a

depth of three-quarters of an inch. She arranges them in groups, and

lays altogether about five or six hundred. The egg is a little marvel

of mechanism. After the hatching it appears as an opaque white

cylinder, with a round and very regular hole at the top. To the edge of

this hole is fastened a cap, like a lid. Instead of bursting open

anyhow under the thrusts of the larva within, it opens of its own

accord along a circular line—a specially prepared line of least

resistance.



About a fortnight after the egg is laid, two large, round, rusty-black

dots darken the front end. A little way above these two dots, right at

the top of the cylinder, you see the outline of a thin circular

swelling. This is the line where the shell is preparing to break open.

Soon the transparency of the egg allows one to see the delicate

markings of the tiny creature’s segments. Now is the time to be on the

watch, especially in the morning.



Fortune loves the persevering, and if we pay constant visits to the

eggs we shall be rewarded. All round the swelling, where the resistance

of the shell has gradually been overcome, the end of the egg becomes

detached. Being pushed back by the forehead of the little creature

within, it rises and falls to one side like the top of a tiny

scent-bottle. The Cricket pops out like a Jack-in-the-box.



When he is gone the shell remains distended, smooth, intact, pure

white, with the cap or lid hanging from the opening. A bird’s egg

breaks clumsily under the blows of a wart that grows for the purpose at

the end of the Chick’s beak; the Cricket’s egg is more ingeniously

made, and opens like an ivory case. The thrust of the creature’s head

is enough to work the hinge.



I said above that, when the lid is lifted, a young Cricket pops out;

but this is not quite accurate. What appears is the swaddled grub, as

yet unrecognisable in a tight-fitting sheath. The Decticus, you will

remember, who is hatched in the same way under the soil, wears a

protective covering during his journey to the surface. The Cricket is

related to the Decticus, and therefore wears the same livery, although

in point of fact he does not need it. The egg of the Decticus remains

underground for eight months, so the poor grub has to fight its way

through soil that has grown hard, and it therefore needs a covering for

its long shanks. But the Cricket is shorter and stouter, and since its

egg is only in the ground for a few days it has nothing worse than a

powdery layer of earth to pass through. For these reasons it requires

no overall, and leaves it behind in the shell.



As soon as he is rid of his swaddling-clothes the young Cricket, pale

all over, almost white, begins to battle with the soil overhead. He

hits out with his mandibles; he sweeps aside and kicks behind him the

powdery earth, which offers no resistance. Very soon he is on the

surface, amidst the joys of the sunlight and the perils of conflict

with his fellow-creatures—poor feeble mite that he is, hardly larger

than a Flea.



By the end of twenty-four hours he has turned into a magnificent

blackamoor, whose ebon hue vies with that of the full-grown insect. All

that remains of his original pallor is a white sash that girds his

chest. Very nimble and alert, he sounds the surrounding air with his

long, quivering antennæ, and runs and jumps about with great

impetuosity. Some day he will be too fat to indulge in such antics.



And now we see why the mother Cricket lays so many eggs. It is because

most of the young ones are doomed to death. They are massacred in huge

numbers by other insects, and especially by the little Grey Lizard and

the Ant. The latter, loathsome freebooter that she is, hardly leaves me

a Cricket in my garden. She snaps up the poor little creatures and

gobbles them down at frantic speed.



Oh, the execrable wretch! And to think that we place the Ant in the

front rank of insects! Books are written in her honour, and the stream

of praise never runs dry. The naturalists hold her in great esteem; and

add daily to her fame. It would seem that with animals, as with men,

the surest way to attract attention is to do harm to others.



Nobody asks about the Beetles who do such valuable work as scavengers,

whereas everybody knows the Gnat, that drinker of men’s blood; the

Wasp, that hot-tempered swashbuckler, with her poisoned dagger; and the

Ant, that notorious evil-doer who, in our southern villages, saps and

imperils the rafters of a dwelling as cheerfully as she eats a fig.



The Ant massacres the Crickets in my garden so thoroughly that I am

driven to look for them outside the enclosure. In August, among the

fallen leaves, where the grass has not been wholly scorched by the sun,

I find the young Cricket, already rather big, and now black all over,

with not a vestige of his white girdle remaining. At this period of his

life he is a vagabond: the shelter of a dead leaf or a flat stone is

enough for him.



Many of those who survived the raids of the Ants now fall victims to

the Wasp, who hunts down the wanderers and stores them underground. If

they would but dig their dwellings a few weeks before the usual time

they would be saved; but they never think of it. They are faithful to

their ancient customs.



It is at the close of October, when the first cold weather threatens,

that the burrow is taken in hand. The work is very simple, if I may

judge by my observation of the caged insect. The digging is never done

at a bare point in the pan, but always under the shelter of some

withered lettuce-leaf, a remnant of the food provided. This takes the

place of the grass tuft that seems indispensable to the secrecy of the

home.



The miner scrapes with his fore-legs, and uses the pincers of his

mandibles to pull out the larger bits of gravel. I see him stamping

with his powerful hind-legs, furnished with a double row of spikes; I

see him raking the rubbish, sweeping it backwards and spreading it

slantwise. There you have the whole process.



The work proceeds pretty quickly at first. In the yielding soil of my

cages the digger disappears underground after a spell that lasts a

couple of hours. He returns to the entrance at intervals, always

backwards and always sweeping. Should he be overcome with fatigue he

takes a rest on the threshold of his half-finished home, with his head

outside and his antennæ waving feebly. He goes in again, and resumes

work with pincers and rakes. Soon the periods of rest become longer,

and wear out my patience.



The most urgent part of the work is done. Once the hole is a couple of

inches deep, it suffices for the needs of the moment. The rest will be

a long affair, carried out in a leisurely way, a little one day and a

little the next: the hole will be made deeper and wider as the weather

grows colder and the insect larger. Even in winter, if the temperature

be mild and the sun shining on the entrance to the dwelling, it is not

unusual to see the Cricket shooting out rubbish. Amid the joys of

spring the upkeep of the building still continues. It is constantly

undergoing improvements and repairs until the owner’s death.



When April ends the Cricket’s song begins; at first in rare and shy

solos, but soon in a general symphony in which each clod of turf boasts

its performer. I am more than inclined to place the Cricket at the head

of the spring choristers. In our waste-lands, when the thyme and

lavender are gaily flowering, the Crested Lark rises like a lyrical

rocket, his throat swelling with notes, and from the sky sheds his

sweet music upon the fallows. Down below the Crickets chant the

responses. Their song is monotonous and artless, but well suited in its

very lack of art to the simple gladness of reviving life. It is the

hosanna of the awakening, the sacred alleluia understood by swelling

seed and sprouting blade. In this duet I should award the palm to the

Cricket. His numbers and his unceasing note deserve it. Were the Lark

to fall silent, the fields blue-grey with lavender, swinging its

fragrant censors before the sun, would still receive from this humble

chorister a solemn hymn of praise.









III



HIS MUSICAL-BOX



In steps Science, and says to the Cricket bluntly:



“Show us your musical-box.”



Like all things of real value, it is very simple. It is based on the

same principle as that of the Grasshoppers: a bow with a hook to it,

and a vibrating membrane. The right wing-case overlaps the left and

covers it almost completely, except where it folds back sharply and

encases the insect’s side. It is the opposite arrangement to that which

we find in the Green Grasshopper, the Decticus, and their kinsmen. The

Cricket is right-handed, the others left-handed.



The two wing-cases are made in exactly the same way. To know one is to

know the other. They lie flat on the insect’s back, and slant suddenly

at the side in a right-angled fold, encircling the body with a

delicately veined pinion.



If you hold one of these wing-cases up to the light you will see that

is it a very pale red, save for two large adjoining spaces; a larger,

triangular one in front, and a smaller, oval one at the back. They are

crossed by faint wrinkles. These two spaces are the sounding-boards, or

drums. The skin is finer here than elsewhere, and transparent, though

of a somewhat smoky tint.



At the hinder edge of the front part are two curved, parallel veins,

with a cavity between them. This cavity contains five or six little

black wrinkles that look like the rungs of a tiny ladder. They supply

friction: they intensify the vibration by increasing the number of

points touched by the bow.



On the lower surface one of the two veins that surround the cavity of

the rungs becomes a rib cut into the shape of a hook. This is the bow.

It is provided with about a hundred and fifty triangular teeth of

exquisite geometrical regularity.



It is a fine instrument indeed. The hundred and fifty teeth of the bow,

biting into the rungs of the opposite wing-case, set the four drums in

motion at one and the same time, the lower pair by direct friction, the

upper pair by the shaking of the friction-apparatus. What a rush of

sound! The Cricket with his four drums throws his music to a distance

of some hundreds of yards.



He vies with the Cicada in shrillness, without having the latter’s

disagreeable harshness. And better still: this favoured creature knows

how to modulate his song. The wing-cases, as I said, extend over each

side in a wide fold. These are the dampers which, lowered to a greater

or less depth, alter the intensity of the sound. According to the

extent of their contact with the soft body of the Cricket they allow

him to sing gently at one time and fortissimo at another.



The exact similarity of the two wing-cases is worthy of attention. I

can see clearly the function of the upper bow, and the four

sounding-spaces which sets it in motion; but what is the good of the

lower one, the bow on the left wing? Not resting on anything, it has

nothing to strike with its hook, which is as carefully toothed as the

other. It is absolutely useless, unless the apparatus can invert the

order of its two parts, and place that above which is below. If that

could be done, the perfect symmetry of the instrument is such that the

mechanism would be the same as before, and the insect would be able to

play with the bow that is at present useless. The lower fiddlestick

would become the upper, and the tune would be the same.



I suspected at first that the Cricket could use both bows, or at least

that there were some who were permanently left-handed. But observation

has convinced me of the contrary. All the Crickets I have examined—and

they are many—without a single exception carried the right wing-case

above the left.



I even tried to bring about by artificial means what Nature refused to

show me. Using my forceps, very gently of course, and without straining

the wing-cases, I made these overlap the opposite way. It is easily

done with a little skill and patience. Everything went well: there was

no dislocation of the shoulders, the membranes were not creased.



I almost expected the Cricket to sing, but I was soon undeceived. He

submitted for a few moments; but then, finding himself uncomfortable,

he made an effort and restored his instrument to its usual position. In

vain I repeated the operation: the Cricket’s obstinacy triumphed over

mine.



Then I thought I would make the attempt while the wing-cases were quite

new and plastic, at the moment when the larva casts its skin. I secured

one at the point of being transformed. At this stage the future wings

and wing-cases form four tiny flaps, which, by their shape and

scantiness, and by the way they stick out in different directions,

remind me of the short jackets worn by the Auvergne cheesemakers. The

larva cast off these garments before my eyes.



The wing-cases developed bit by bit, and opened out. There was no sign

to tell me which would overlap the other. Then the edges touched: a few

moments longer and the right would be over the left. This was the time

to intervene.



With a straw I gently changed the position, bringing the left edge over

the right. In spite of some protest from the insect I was quite

successful: the left wing-case pushed forward, though only very little.

Then I left it alone, and gradually the wing-cases matured in the

inverted position. The Cricket was left-handed. I expected soon to see

him wield the fiddlestick which the members of his family never employ.



On the third day he made a start. A few brief grating sounds were

heard—the noise of a machine out of gear shifting its parts back into

their proper order. Then the tune began, with its accustomed tone and

rhythm.



Alas, I had been over-confident in my mischievous straw! I thought I

had created a new type of instrumentalist, and I had obtained nothing

at all! The Cricket was scraping with his right fiddlestick, and always

would. With a painful effort he had dislocated his shoulders, which I

had forced to harden in the wrong way. He had put back on top that

which ought to be on top, and underneath that which ought to be

underneath. My sorry science tried to make a left-handed player of him.

He laughed at my devices, and settled down to be right-handed for the

rest of his life.



Enough of the instrument; let us listen to the music. The Cricket sings

on the threshold of his house, in the cheerful sunshine, never indoors.

The wing-cases utter their cri-cri in a soft tremolo. It is full,

sonorous, nicely cadenced, and lasts indefinitely. Thus are the

leisures of solitude beguiled all through the spring. The hermit at

first sings for his own pleasure. Glad to be alive, he chants the

praises of the sun that shines upon him, the grass that feeds him, the

peaceful retreat that harbours him. The first object of his bow is to

hymn the pleasures of life.



Later on he plays to his mate. But, to tell the truth, his attention is

rewarded with little gratitude; for in the end she quarrels with him

ferociously, and unless he takes to flight she cripples him—and even

eats him more or less. But indeed, in any case he soon dies. Even if he

escapes his pugnacious mate, he perishes in June. We are told that the

music-loving Greeks used to keep Cicadæ in cages, the better to enjoy

their singing. I venture to disbelieve the story. In the first place

the harsh clicking of the Cicadæ, when long continued at close

quarters, is a torture to ears that are at all delicate. The Greeks’

sense of hearing was too well trained to take pleasure in such raucous

sounds away from the general concert of the fields, which is heard at a

distance.



In the second place it is absolutely impossible to bring up Cicadæ in

captivity, unless we cover over a whole olive-tree or plane-tree. A

single day spent in a cramped enclosure would make the high-flying

insect die of boredom.



Is it not possible that people have confused the Cricket with the

Cicada, as they also do the Green Grasshopper? With the Cricket they

would be quite right. He is one who bears captivity gaily: his

stay-at-home ways predispose him to it. He lives happily and whirrs

without ceasing in a cage no larger than a man’s fist, provided that he

has his lettuce-leaf every day. Was it not he whom the small boys of

Athens reared in little wire cages hanging on a window-frame?



The small boys of Provence, and all the South, have the same tastes. In

the towns a Cricket becomes the child’s treasured possession. The

insect, petted and pampered, sings to him of the simple joys of the

country. Its death throws the whole household into a sort of mourning.



The three other Crickets of my neighbourhood all carry the same musical

instrument as the Field Cricket, with slight variation of detail. Their

song is much alike in all cases, allowing for differences of size. The

smallest of the family, the Bordeaux Cricket, sometimes ventures into

the dark corners of my kitchen, but his song is so faint that it takes

a very attentive ear to hear it.



The Field Cricket sings during the sunniest hours of the spring: during

the still summer nights we have the Italian Cricket. He is a slender,

feeble insect, quite pale, almost white, as beseems his nocturnal

habits. You are afraid of crushing him, if you so much as take him in

your fingers. He lives high in air, on shrubs of every kind, or on the

taller grasses; and he rarely descends to earth. His song, the sweet

music of the still, hot evenings from July to October; begins at sunset

and continues for the best part of the night.



This song is known to everybody here in Provence, for the smallest

clump of bushes has its orchestra. The soft, slow gri-i-i gri-i-i is

made more expressive by a slight tremolo. If nothing happens to disturb

the insect the sound remains unaltered; but at the least noise the

musician becomes a ventriloquist. You hear him quite close, in front of

you; and then, all of a sudden, you hear him fifteen yards away. You

move towards the sound. It is not there: it comes from the original

place. No, it doesn’t after all. Is it over there on the left, or does

it come from behind? One is absolutely at a loss, quite unable to find

the spot where the music is chirping.



This illusion of varying distance is produced in two ways. The sounds

become loud or soft, open or muffled, according to the exact part of

the lower wing-case that is pressed by the bow. And they are also

modified by the position of the wing-cases. For the loud sounds these

are raised to their full height: for the muffled sounds they are

lowered more or less. The pale Cricket misleads those who hunt for him

by pressing the edges of his vibrating flaps against his soft body.



I know no prettier or more limpid insect-song than his, heard in the

deep stillness of an August evening. How often have I lain down on the

ground among the rosemary bushes of my harmas, to listen to the

delightful concert!



The Italian Cricket swarms in my enclosure. Every tuft of red-flowering

rock-rose has its chorister; so has every clump of lavender. The bushy

arbutus-shrubs, the turpentine-trees, all become orchestras. And in its

clear voice, so full of charm, the whole of this little world, from

every shrub and every branch, sings of the gladness of life.



High up above my head the Swan stretches its great cross along the

Milky Way: below, all round me, the insect’s symphony rises and falls.

Infinitesimal life telling its joys makes me forget the pageant of the

stars. Those celestial eyes look down upon me, placid and cold, but do

not stir a fibre within me. Why? They lack the great secret—life. Our

reason tells us, it is true, that those suns warm worlds like ours; but

when all is said, this belief is no more than a guess, it is not a

certainty.



In your company, on the contrary, O my Cricket, I feel the throbbing of

life, which is the soul of our lump of clay; and that is why, under my

rosemary-hedge, I give but an absent glance at the constellation of the

Swan and devote all my attention to your serenade! A living speck—the

merest dab of life—capable of pleasure and pain, is far more

interesting to me than all the immensities of mere matter.

















CHAPTER XIII



THE SISYPHUS





You are not tired, I hope, of hearing about the Scavenger Beetles with

a talent for making balls. I have told you of the Sacred Beetle and of

the Spanish Copris, and now I wish to say a few words of yet another of

these creatures. In the insect world we meet with a great many model

mothers: it is only fair, for once to draw attention to a good father.



Now a good father is rarely seen except among the higher animals. The

bird is excellent in this respect, and the furred folk perform their

duties honourably. Lower in the scale of living creatures the father is

generally indifferent to his family. Very few insects are exceptions to

this rule. This heartlessness, which would be detestable in the higher

ranks of the animal kingdom, where the weakness of the young demands

prolonged care, is excusable among insect fathers. For the robustness

of the new-born insect enables it to gather its food unaided, provided

it be in a suitable place. When all that the Pieris need do for the

safety of the race is to lay her eggs on the leaves of a cabbage, of

what use would a father’s care be? The mother’s botanical instinct

needs no assistance. At laying-time the other parent would be in the

way.



Most insects adopt this simple method of upbringing. They merely choose

a dining-room which will be the home of the family once it is hatched,

or else a place that will allow the young ones to find suitable fare

for themselves. There is no need for the father in such cases. He

generally dies without lending the least assistance in the work of

setting up his offspring in life.



Things do not always happen, however, in quite such a primitive

fashion. There are tribes that provide a dowry for their families, that

prepare board and lodging for them in advance. The Bees and Wasps in

particular are masters in the industry of making cellars, jars, and

satchels, in which the ration of honey is hoarded: they are perfect in

the art of creating burrows stocked with the game that forms the food

of their grubs.



Well, this enormous labour, which is one of building and provisioning

combined, this toil in which the insect’s whole life is spent, is done

by the mother alone. It wears her out; it utterly exhausts her. The

father drunk with sunlight, stands idle at the edge of the workyard,

watching his plucky helpmate at her job.



Why does he not lend the mother a helping hand? It is now or never. Why

does he not follow the example of the Swallow couple, both of whom

bring their bit of straw, their blob of mortar to the building and

their Midge to the young ones? He does nothing of the kind. Possibly he

puts forward his comparative weakness as an excuse. It is a poor

argument; for to cut a disk out of a leaf, to scrape some cotton from a

downy plant, to collect a little bit of cement in muddy places would

not overtax his strength. He could very easily help, at any rate as a

labourer; he is quite fit to gather materials for the mother, with her

greater intelligence, to fit in place. The real reason of his

inactivity is sheer incapability.



It is strange that the most gifted of the industrial insects should

know nothing of a father’s duties. One would expect the highest talents

to be developed in him by the needs of the young; but he remains as

dull-witted as a Butterfly, whose family is reared at so small a cost.

We are baffled at every turn by the question: Why is a particular

instinct given to one insect and denied to another?



It baffles us so thoroughly that we are extremely surprised when we

find in the scavenger the noble qualities that are denied to the

honey-gatherer. Various Scavenger Beetles are accustomed to help in the

burden of housekeeping, and know the value of working in double

harness. The Geotrupes couple, for instance, prepare their larva’s food

together: the father lends his mate the assistance of his powerful

press in the manufacture of the tightly packed sausage-shaped ration.

He is a splendid example of domestic habits, and one extremely

surprising amid the general egoism.



To this example my constant studies of the subject have enabled me to

add three others, all furnished by the Guild of Scavengers.



One of them is the Sisyphus, the smallest and most zealous of all our

pill-rollers. He is the liveliest and most agile of them all, and recks

nothing of awkward somersaults and headlong falls on the impossible

roads to which his obstinacy brings him back again and again. It was in

reference to these wild gymnastics that Latreille gave him the name of

Sisyphus.



As you know, that unhappy wretch of classical fame had a terrible task.

He was forced to roll a huge stone uphill; and each time he succeeded

in toiling to the top of the mountain the stone slipped from his grasp

and rolled to the bottom. I like this myth. It is the history of a good

many of us. So far as I am concerned, for half a century and more I

have painfully climbed the steep ascent, spending my strength

recklessly in the struggle to hoist up to safety that crushing burden,

my daily bread. Hardly is the loaf balanced when it slips off, slides

down, and is lost in the abyss.



The Sisyphus with whom we are now concerned knows none of these bitter

trials. Untroubled by the steep slopes he gaily trundles his load, at

one time bread for himself, at another bread for his children. He is

very scarce in these parts; and I should never have managed to secure a

suitable number of subjects for my studies had it not been for an

assistant whom I have already mentioned more than once.



I speak of my little son Paul, aged seven. He is my enthusiastic

companion on my hunting expeditions, and knows better than any one of

his age the secrets of the Cicada, the Locust, the Cricket, and

especially the Scavenger Beetle. Twenty paces away his sharp eyes will

distinguish the real mound that marks a burrow from casual heaps of

earth. His delicate ears catch the Grasshopper’s faint song, which is

quite unheard by me. He lends me his sight and hearing; and I, in

exchange, present him with ideas, which he receives attentively.



Little Paul has his own insect-cages, in which the Sacred Beetle makes

pears for him; his own little garden, no larger than a

pocket-handkerchief, where he grows beans, often digging them up to see

if the tiny roots are any longer; his forest plantation, in which stand

four oaks a hand’s-breadth high, still furnished on one side with the

acorn that feeds them. It all makes a welcome change from grammar,

which gets on none the worse for it.



When the month of May is near at hand Paul and I get up early one

morning—so early that we start without our breakfast—and we explore, at

the foot of the mountain, the meadows where the flocks have been. Here

we find the Sisyphus. Paul is so zealous in his search that we soon

have a sufficient number of couples.



All that is needed for their well-being is a wire-gauze cover, with a

bed of sand and a supply of their food—to obtain which we too turn

scavengers. These creatures are so small, hardly the size of a

cherry-stone! And so curious in shape withal! A dumpy body, the hinder

end of which is pointed, and very long legs, resembling a Spider’s when

outspread. The hind-legs are of amazing length, and are curved, which

is most useful for clasping and squeezing the pellet.



Soon the time comes for establishing the family. With equal zeal father

and mother alike take part in kneading, carting, and stowing away the

provisions for the young ones. With the cleaver of the fore-legs a

morsel of the right size is cut from the food placed at their disposal.

The two insects work at the piece together, giving it little pats,

pressing it, and shaping it into a ball as large as a big pea.



As in the Sacred Beetle’s workshop, the accurately round shape is

obtained without the mechanical trick of rolling the ball. The material

is modelled into a sphere before it is moved, before it is even

loosened from its support. Here, once more, we have an expert in

geometry familiar with the best form for preserving food.



The ball is soon ready. It must now, by vigorous rolling, be given the

crust which will protect the soft stuff within from becoming too dry.

The mother, who can be recognised by her slightly larger size,

harnesses herself in the place of honour, in front. With her long

hind-legs on the ground and her fore-legs on the ball, she hauls it

towards her, backwards. The father pushes behind in the reverse

position, head downwards. It is precisely the same method as that of

the Sacred Beetle when working in twos, but it has another object. The

Sisyphus team conveys a store of food for the grubs, whereas the big

pill-rollers trundle a banquet which they themselves will eat up

underground.



The couple start off along the ground. They have no definite goal, but

walk in a direct line, without regard to the obstacles that lie in the

way. In this backward march the obstacles could not be avoided; but

even if they were seen the Sisyphus would not try to go round them. For

she even makes obstinate attempts to climb the wire-work of my cage.

This is an arduous and impossible task. Clawing the meshes of the gauze

with her hind-legs the mother pulls the load towards her; then, putting

her fore-legs round it, she holds it suspended in air. The father,

finding nothing to stand upon, clings to the ball—encrusts himself in

it, so to speak, thus adding his weight to that of the lump, and taking

no further pains. The effort is too great to last. The ball and its

rider, forming one mass, fall to the floor. The mother, from above,

looks down for a moment in surprise, and then drops to recover the load

and renew her impossible attempt to scale the side. After repeated

falls the climb is abandoned.



Even on level ground the carting is not carried on without difficulty.

At every moment the load swerves on some mound made by a bit of gravel;

and the team topple over and kick about, upside down. This is a trifle,

the merest trifle. These tumbles, which so often fling the Sisyphus on

his back, cause him no concern; one would even think he liked them.

After all, the ball has to be hardened and made of the right

consistency. And this being the case, bumps falls, and jolts are all

part of the programme. This mad steeple-chasing goes on for hours.



At last the mother, regarding the work as completed, goes off a little

way in search of a suitable spot. The father mounts guard, squatting on

the treasure. If his companion’s absence be unduly long, he relieves

his boredom by spinning the ball nimbly between his uplifted hind legs.

He treats his precious pellet as a juggler treats his ball. He tests

its perfect shape with his curved legs, the branches of his compasses.

No one who sees him frisking in that jubilant attitude can doubt his

lively satisfaction—the satisfaction of a father assured of his

children’s future.



“It is I,” he seems to say, “I who kneaded this round loaf, I who made

this bread for my sons!”



And he lifts on high, for all to see, this magnificent testimony to his

industry.



Meanwhile the mother has chosen a site for the burrow. A shallow pit is

made, a mere beginning of the work. The ball is rolled near it. The

father, that vigilant guardian, does not let go, while the mother digs

with her legs and forehead. Soon the hollow is big enough to hold the

pellet. She insists on having it quite close to her; she must feel it

bobbing up and down behind her, on her back, safe from parasites,

before she decides to go farther. She is afraid of what might happen to

it if it were left on the edge of the burrow until the home were

completed. There are plenty of Midges and other such insects to grab

it. One cannot be too careful.



The ball therefore is inserted, half in and half out of the

partly-formed basin. The mother, underneath, gets her legs round it and

pulls: the father above, lets it down gently, and sees that the hole is

not choked up with falling earth. All goes well. The digging is resumed

and the descent continues, always with the same caution; one of the

insects pulling the load, the other regulating the drop and clearing

away anything that might hinder the operation. A few more efforts, and

the ball disappears underground with the two miners. What follows for

some time to come can only be a repetition of what has already been

done. We must wait half a day or so.



If we keep careful watch we shall see the father come up again to the

surface by himself, and crouch in the sand near the burrow. Detained

below by duties in which her companion can be of no assistance to her,

the mother usually postpones her appearance till the morrow. At last

she shows herself. The father leaves the place where he was snoozing,

and joins her. The reunited couple go back to the spot where their

food-stuffs are to be found, and having refreshed themselves they

gather up more materials. The two then set to work again. Once more

they model, cart, and store the ball together.



I am delighted with this constancy. That it is really the rule I dare

not declare. There must, no doubt, be flighty, fickle Beetles. No

matter: the little I have seen gives me a high opinion of the domestic

habits of the Sisyphus.



It is time to inspect the burrow. At no great depth we find a tiny

niche, just large enough to allow the mother to move round her work.

The smallness of the chamber tells us that the father cannot remain

there for long. When the studio is ready, he must go away to leave the

sculptress room to turn.



The contents of the cellar consist of a single ball, a masterpiece of

art. It is a copy of the Sacred Beetle’s pear on a very much reduced

scale, its smallness making the polish of the surface and the elegance

of the curves all the more striking. Its diameter, at the broadest

point, measures one-half to three-quarters of an inch.



One more observation about the Sisyphus. Six couples under the

wire-gauze cover gave me fifty-seven pears containing one egg each—an

average of over nine grubs to each couple. The Sacred Beetle is far

from reaching this figure. To what cause are we to attribute this large

brood? I can see but one: the fact that the father works as well as the

mother. Family burdens that would exceed the strength of one are not

too heavy when there are two to bear them.

















CHAPTER XIV



THE CAPRICORN





I



THE GRUB’S HOME



An eighteenth-century philosopher, Condillac, describes an imaginary

statue, organised like a man, but with none of a man’s senses. He then

pictures the effect of endowing it with the five senses, one by one,

and the first sense he gives it is that of smell. The statue, having no

sense but smell, inhales the scent of a rose, and out of that single

impression creates a whole world of ideas. In my youth I owed some

happy moments to that statue. I seemed to see it come to life in that

action of the nostrils, acquiring memory, concentration, judgment, and

other mental qualities, even as still waters are aroused and rippled by

the impact of a grain of sand. I recovered from my illusion under the

teaching of my abler master the animal. The Capricorn taught me that

the problem is more obscure than the Abbé Condillac led me to suppose.



When my winter supply of firewood is being prepared for me with wedge

and mallet, the woodman selects, by my express orders, the oldest and

most ravaged trunks in his stack. My tastes bring a smile to his lips;

he wonders by what whimsy I prefer wood that is worm-eaten to sound

wood, which burns so much better. I have my views on the subject, and

the worthy man submits to them.



A fine oak-trunk, seamed with scars and gashed with wounds, contains

many treasures for my studies. The mallet drives home, the wedges bite,

the wood splits; and within, in the dry and hollow parts, are revealed

groups of various insects who are capable of living through the cold

season, and have here taken up their winter quarters. In the low-roofed

galleries built by some Beetle the Osmia Bee has piled her cells one

above the other. In the deserted chambers and vestibules Megachiles

have arranged their leafy jars. In the live wood, filled with juicy

sap, the larva of the Capricorn, the chief author of the oak’s undoing,

has set up its home.



Truly they are strange creatures, these grubs: bits of intestines

crawling about! In the middle of Autumn I find them of two different

ages. The older are almost as thick as one’s finger; the others hardly

attain the diameter of a pencil. I find, in addition, the pupa or nymph

more or less fully coloured, and the perfect insect ready to leave the

trunk when the hot weather comes again. Life inside the wood,

therefore, lasts for three years.



How is this long period of solitude and captivity spent? In wandering

lazily through the thickness of the oak, in making roads whose rubbish

serves as food. The horse in the book of Job “swallows the ground” in a

figure of speech: the Capricorn’s grub eats its way literally. With its

carpenter’s-gouge—a strong black mandible, short and without notches,

but scooped into a sharp-edged spoon—it digs the opening of its tunnel.

From the piece cut out the grub extracts the scanty juices, while the

refuse accumulates behind him in heaps. The path is devoured as it is

made; it is blocked behind as it makes way ahead.



Since this harsh work is done with the two gouges, the two curved

chisels of the mandibles, the Capricorn-grub requires much strength in

the front part of its body, which therefore swells into a sort of

pestle. The Buprestis-grub, that other industrious carpenter, adopts a

similar form, and even exaggerates its pestle. The part that toils and

carves hard wood requires to be robust; the rest of the body, which has

but to follow after, continues slim. The essential thing is that the

implement of the jaws should possess a solid support and powerful

machinery. The Capricorn larva strengthens its chisels with a stout,

black, horny armour that surrounds the mouth; yet, apart from its skull

and its equipment of tools, this grub has a skin as fine as satin and

as white as ivory. This dead white is caused by a thick layer of

grease, which one would not expect a diet of wood to produce in the

animal. True, it has nothing to do, at every hour of the day and night,

but gnaw. The quantity of wood that passes into its stomach makes up

for the lack of nourishing qualities.



The grub’s legs can hardly be called legs at all; they are mere

suggestions of the legs the full-grown insect will have by and by. They

are infinitesimal in size, and of no use whatever for walking. They do

not even touch the supporting surface, being kept off it by the

plumpness of the chest. The organs by means of which the animal

progresses are something altogether different.



The grub of the Rose-chafer, with the aid of the hairs and pad-like

projections upon its spine, manages to reverse the usual method of

walking, and to wriggle along on its back. The grub of the Capricorn is

even more ingenious: it moves at the same time on its back and its

stomach. To take the place of its useless legs it has a walking

apparatus almost like feet, which appear, contrary to every rule, on

the surface of its back.



On the middle part of its body, both above and below, there is a row of

seven four-sided pads, which the grub can either expand or contract,

making them stick out or lie flat at will. It is by means of these pads

that it walks. When it wishes to move forwards it expands the hinder

pads, those on the back as well as those on the stomach, and contracts

its front pads. The swelling of the hind pads in the narrow gallery

fills up the space, and gives the grub something to push against. At

the same time the flattening of the front pads, by decreasing the size

of the grub, allows it to slip forward and take half a step. Then, to

complete the step, the hind-quarters must be brought up the same

distance. With this object the front pads fill out and provide support,

while those behind shrink and leave room for the grub to draw up its

hind-quarters.



With the double support of its back and stomach, with alternate

swellings and shrinkings, the animal easily advances or retreats along

its gallery, a sort of mould which the contents fill without a gap. But

if the pads grip only on one side progress becomes impossible. When

placed on the smooth wood of my table the animal wriggles slowly; it

lengthens and shortens without progressing by a hair’s breadth. Laid on

the surface of a piece of split oak, a rough, uneven surface due to the

gash made by the wedge, it twists and writhes, moves the front part of

its body very slowly from left to right and right to left, lifts it a

little, lowers it, and begins again. This is all it can do. The

rudimentary legs remain inert and absolutely useless.









II



THE GRUB’S SENSATIONS



Though the Capricorn-grub possesses these useless legs, the germs of

future limbs, there is no sign of the eyes with which the

fully-developed insect will be richly gifted. The larva has not the

least trace of any organs of sight. What would it do with sight, in the

murky thickness of a tree-trunk? Hearing is likewise absent. In the

untroubled silence of the oak’s inmost heart the sense of hearing would

be superfluous. Where sounds are lacking, of what use is the faculty of

discerning them?



To make the matter certain I carried out some experiments. If split

lengthwise the grub’s abode becomes a half-tunnel, in which I can watch

the occupant’s doings. When left alone it alternately works for a

while, gnawing at its gallery, and rests for awhile, fixed by its pads

to the two sides of the tunnel. I took advantage of these moments of

rest to inquire into its power of hearing. The banging of hard bodies,

the ring of metallic objects, the grating of a file upon a saw, were

tried in vain. The animal remained impassive: not a wince, not a

movement of the skin, no sign of awakened attention. I succeeded no

better when I scratched the wood near it with a hard point, to imitate

the sound of some other grub at work in its neighbourhood. The

indifference to my noisy tricks could be no greater in a lifeless

object. The animal is deaf.



Can it smell? Everything tells us that it cannot. Scent is of

assistance in the search for food. But the Capricorn-grub need not go

in quest of eatables. It feeds on its home; it lives on the wood that

gives it shelter. Nevertheless I tested it. In a log of fresh cypress

wood I made a groove of the same width as that of the natural

galleries, and I placed the grub inside it. Cypress wood is strongly

scented; it has the smell characteristic of most of the pine family.

This resinous scent, so strange to a grub that lives always in oak,

ought to vex it, to trouble it; and it should show its displeasure by

some kind of commotion, some attempt to get away. It did nothing of the

kind: once it had found the right position in the groove it went to the

end, as far as it could go, and made no further movement. Then I set

before it, in its usual channel, a piece of camphor. Again no effect.

Camphor was followed by naphthaline. Still no result. I do not think I

am going too far when I deny the creature a sense of smell.



Taste is there no doubt. But such taste! The food is without variety:

oak, for three years at a stretch, and nothing else. What can the

grub’s palate find to enjoy in this monotonous fare? The agreeable

sensation of a fresh piece, oozing with sap; the uninteresting flavour

of an over-dry piece. These, probably, are the only changes in the

meal.



There remains the sense of touch, the universal passive sense common to

all live flesh that quivers under the goad of pain. The Capricorn-grub,

therefore, is limited to two senses, those of taste and touch, and both

of these it possesses only in a very small degree. It is very little

better off than Condillac’s statue. The imaginary being created by the

philosopher had one sense only, that of smell, equal in delicacy to our

own; the real being, the oak-eater has two, which are inferior even

when put together to the one sense of the statue. The latter plainly

perceived the scent of a rose, and clearly distinguished it from any

other.



A vain wish has often come to me in my dreams: to be able to think, for

a few minutes, with the brain of my Dog, or to see the world with the

eyes of a Gnat. How things would change in appearance! But they would

change much more if understood only with the intellect of the grub.

What has that incomplete creature learnt through its senses of touch

and taste? Very little; almost nothing. It knows that the best bits of

wood have a special kind of flavour, and that the sides of a passage,

when not carefully smoothed, are painful to the skin. This is the limit

of its wisdom. In comparison with this, the statue with the sensitive

nostrils was a marvel of knowledge. It remembered, compared, judged,

and reasoned. Can the Capricorn-grub remember? Can it reason? I

described it a little time ago as a bit of intestine that crawls about.

This description gives an answer to these questions. The grub has the

sensations of a bit of intestine, no more and no less.









III



THE GRUB’S FORESIGHT



And this half-alive object, this nothing-at-all, is capable of

marvellous foresight. It knows hardly anything of the present, but it

sees very clearly into the future.



For three years on end the larva wanders about in the heart of the

trunk. It goes up, goes down, turns to this side and that; it leaves

one vein for another of better flavour, but without ever going too far

from the inner depths, where the temperature is milder than near the

surface, and greater safety reigns. But a day is at hand when the

hermit must leave its safe retreat and face the perils of the outer

world. Eating is not everything, after all; we have to get out of this.



But how? For the grub, before leaving the trunk, must turn into a

long-horned Beetle. And though the grub, being well equipped with tools

and muscular strength, finds no difficulty in boring through the wood

and going where it pleases, it by no means follows that the coming

Capricorn has the same powers. The Beetle’s short spell of life must be

spent in the open air. Will it be able to clear itself a way of escape?



It is quite plain, at all events, that the Capricorn will be absolutely

unable to make use of the tunnel bored by the grub. This tunnel is a

very long and very irregular maze, blocked with great heaps of wormed

wood. It grows constantly smaller and smaller as it approaches the

starting-point, because the larva entered the trunk as slim as a tiny

bit of straw, whereas to-day it is as thick as one’s finger. In its

three years’ wanderings it always dug its gallery to fit the size of

its body. Evidently the road of the larva cannot be the Capricorn’s way

out. His overgrown antennæ, his long legs, his inflexible armour-plates

would find the narrow, winding corridor impassable. The passage would

have to be cleared of its wormed wood, and, moreover, greatly enlarged.

It would be easier to attack the untouched timber and dig straight

ahead. Is the insect capable of doing so? I determined to find out.



I made some cavities of suitable size in some oak logs that had been

chopped in two, and in each of these cells I placed a Capricorn that

had just been transformed from the grub. I then joined the two sides of

the logs, fastening them together with wire. When June came I heard a

sound of scraping inside the logs, and waited anxiously to see if the

Capricorns would appear. They had hardly three-quarters of an inch to

pierce. Yet not one came out. On opening the logs I found all my

captives dead. A pinch of sawdust represented all they had done.



I had expected more from their sturdy mandibles. In spite of their

boring-tools the hermits died for lack of skill. I tried enclosing some

in reed-stumps, but even this comparatively easy work was too much for

them. Some freed themselves, but others failed.



Notwithstanding his stalwart appearance the Capricorn cannot leave the

tree-trunk by his own unaided efforts. The truth is that his way is

prepared for him by the grub—that bit of intestine.



Some presentiment—to us an unfathomable mystery—causes the

Capricorn-grub to leave its peaceful stronghold in the very heart of

the oak and wriggle towards the outside, where its foe the Woodpecker

is quite likely to gobble it up. At the risk of its life it stubbornly

digs and gnaws to the very bark. It leaves only the thinnest film, the

slenderest screen, between itself and the world at large. Sometimes,

even, the rash one opens the doorway wide.



This is the Capricorn’s way out. The insect has but to file the screen

a little with his mandibles, to bump against it with his forehead, in

order to bring it down. He will even have nothing at all to do when the

doorway is open, as often happens. The unskilled carpenter, burdened

with his extravagant head-dress, will come out from the darkness

through this opening when the summer heat arrives.



As soon as the grub has attended to the important business of making a

doorway into the world, it begins to busy itself with its

transformation into a Beetle. First, it requires space for the purpose.

So it retreats some distance down its gallery, and in the side of the

passage digs itself a transformation-chamber more sumptuously furnished

and barricaded than any I have ever seen. It is a roomy hollow with

curved walls, three to four inches in length and wider than it is high.

The width of the cell gives the insect a certain degree of freedom of

movement when the time comes for forcing the barricade, which is more

than a close-fitting case would do.



The barricade—a door which the larva builds as a protection from

danger—is twofold, and often threefold. Outside, it is a stack of woody

refuse, of particles of chopped timber; inside, a mineral lid, a

concave cover, all in one piece, of a chalky white. Pretty often, but

not always, there is added to these two layers an inner casing of

shavings.



Behind this threefold door the larva makes its arrangements for its

transformation. The sides of the chamber are scraped, thus providing a

sort of down formed of ravelled woody fibres, broken into tiny shreds.

This velvety stuff is fixed on the wall, in a thick coating, as fast as

it is made. The chamber is thus padded throughout with a fine

swan’s-down, a delicate precaution taken by the rough grub out of

kindness for the tender creature it will become when it has cast its

skin.



Let us now go back to the most curious part of the furnishing, the

cover or inner door of the entrance. It is like an oval skull-cap,

white and hard as chalk, smooth within and rough without, with some

resemblance to an acorn-cup. The rough knots show that the material is

supplied in small, pasty mouthfuls, which become solid outside in

little lumps. The animal does not remove them, because it is unable to

get at them; but the inside surface is polished, being within the

grub’s reach. This singular lid is as hard and brittle as a flake of

limestone. It is, as a matter of fact, composed solely of carbonate of

lime, and a sort of cement which gives consistency to the chalky paste.



I am convinced that this stony deposit comes from a particular part of

the grub’s stomach, called the chylific ventricle. The chalk is kept

separate from the food, and is held in reserve until the right time

comes to discharge it. This freestone factory causes me no

astonishment. It serves for various chemical works in different grubs

when undergoing transformation. Certain Oil-beetles keep refuse in it,

and several kinds of Wasps use it to manufacture the shellac with which

they varnish the silk of their cocoons.



When the exit way is prepared, and the cell upholstered in velvet and

closed with a threefold barricade, the industrious grub has finished

its task. It lays aside its tools, sheds its skin, and becomes a

pupa—weakness personified, in the swaddling-clothes of a cocoon. The

head is always turned towards the door. This is a trifling detail in

appearance; but in reality it is everything. To lie this way or that in

the long cell is a matter of great indifference to the grub, which is

very supple, turning easily in its narrow lodging and adopting whatever

position it pleases. The coming Capricorn will not enjoy the same

privileges. Stiffly encased in his horny armour, he will not be able to

turn from end to end; he will not even be capable of bending, if some

sudden curve should make the passage difficult. He must, without fail,

find the door in front of him, or he will perish in the

transformation-room. If the grub should forget this little matter, and

lie down to sleep with its head at the back of the cell, the Capricorn

would be infallibly lost. His cradle would become a hopeless dungeon.



But there is no fear of this danger. The “bit of intestine” knows too

much about the future to neglect the formality of keeping its head at

the door. At the end of spring the Capricorn, now in possession of his

full strength, dreams of the joys of the sun, of the festivals of

light. He wants to get out.



What does he find before him? First, a heap of filings easily dispersed

with his claws; next, a stone lid which he need not even break into

fragments, for it comes undone in one piece. It is removed from its

frame with a few pushes of the forehead, a few tugs of the claws. In

fact, I find the lid intact on the threshold of the abandoned cell.

Last comes a second mass of woody remnants as easy to scatter as the

first. The road is now free: the Capricorn has but to follow the wide

vestibule, which will lead him, without any possibility of mistake, to

the outer exit. Should the doorway not be open, all that he has to do

is to gnaw through a thin screen, an easy task. Behold him outside, his

long antennæ quivering with excitement.



What have we learnt from him? Nothing from him, but much from his grub.

This grub, so poor in organs of sensation, gives us much to think

about. It knows that the coming Beetle will not be able to cut himself

a road through the oak, and it therefore opens one for him at its own

risk and peril. It knows that the Capricorn, in his stiff armour, will

never be able to turn round and make for the opening of the cell; and

it takes care to fall into its sleep of transformation with its head

towards the door. It knows how soft the pupa’s flesh will be, and it

upholsters the bedroom with velvet. It knows that the enemy is likely

to break in during the slow work of the transformation, and so, to make

a protection against attack, it stores lime inside its stomach. It

knows the future with a clear vision, or, to be accurate, it behaves as

if it knew the future.



What makes it act in this way? It is certainly not taught by the

experiences of its senses. What does it know of the outside world? I

repeat—as much as a bit of intestine can know. And this senseless

creature astounds us! I regret that the philosopher Condillac, instead

of creating a statue that could smell a rose, did not gift it with an

instinct. How soon he would have seen that the animals—including

man—have powers quite apart from the senses; inspirations that are born

with them, and are not the result of learning.



This curious life and this marvellous foresight are not confined to one

kind of grub. Besides the Capricorn of the Oak there is the Capricorn

of the Cherry-tree. In appearance the latter is an exact copy of the

former, on a much smaller scale; but the little Capricorn has different

tastes from its large kinsman’s. If we search the heart of the

cherry-tree it does not show us a single grub anywhere: the entire

population lives between the bark and the wood. This habit is only

varied when transformation is at hand. Then the grub of the cherry-tree

leaves the surface, and scoops out a cavity at a depth of about two

inches. Here the walls are bare: they are not lined with the velvety

fibres dear to the Capricorn of the Oak. The entrance is blocked,

however, by sawdust, and a chalky lid similar to the other except in

point of size. Need I add that the grub lies down and goes to sleep

with his head against the door? Not one forgets to take this

precaution.



There is also a Saperda of the Poplar and a Saperda of the Cherry-tree.

They have the same organisation and the same tools; but the former

follows the methods of the Capricorn of the Oak, while the latter

imitates the Capricorn of the Cherry-tree.



The poplar-tree is also inhabited by the Bronze Buprestis, which takes

no defensive measures before going to sleep. It makes no barricade, no

heap of shavings. And in the apricot-tree the Nine-spotted Buprestis

behaves in the same way. In this case the grub is inspired by its

intuitions to alter its plan of work to suit the coming Beetle. The

perfect insect is a cylinder; the grub is a strap, a ribbon. The

former, which wears unyielding armour, needs a cylindrical passage; the

latter needs a very low tunnel, with a roof that it can reach with the

pads on its back. The grub therefore changes its manner of boring:

yesterday the gallery, suited to a wandering life in the thickness of

the wood, was a wide burrow with a very low ceiling, almost a slot;

to-day the passage is cylindrical. A gimlet could not bore it more

accurately. This sudden change in the system of roadmaking on behalf of

the coming insect once more shows us the foresight of this “bit of

intestine.”



I could tell you of many other wood-eaters. Their tools are the same;

yet each species displays special methods, tricks of the trade that

have nothing to do with the tools. These grubs, then, like so many

insects, show us that instinct is not made by the tools, so to speak,

but that the same tools may be used in various ways.



To continue the subject would be monotonous. The general rule stands

out very clearly from these facts: the wood-eating grubs prepare the

path of deliverance for the perfect insect, which will merely have to

pass a barricade of shavings or pierce a screen of bark. By a curious

reversal of the usual state of things, infancy is here the season of

energy, of strong tools, of stubborn work; mature age is the season of

leisure, of industrial ignorance, of idle diversions, without trade or

profession. The providence of the human infant is the mother; here the

baby grub is the mother’s providence. With its patient tooth, which

neither the peril of the outside world nor the difficult task of boring

through hard wood is able to discourage, it clears away for her to the

supreme delights of the sun.

















CHAPTER XV



LOCUSTS





I



THEIR VALUE



“Mind you’re ready, children, to-morrow morning before the sun gets too

hot. We’re going Locust-hunting.”



This announcement throws the household into great excitement at

bed-time. What do my little helpers see in their dreams? Blue wings,

red wings, suddenly flung out like fans; long saw-toothed legs, pale

blue or pink, which kick out when we hold their owners in our fingers;

great shanks that act like springs, and make the insect leap forward as

though shot from a catapult.



If there be one peaceful and safe form of hunting, one in which both

old age and childhood can share, it is Locust-hunting. What delicious

mornings we owe to it! How delightful, when the mulberries are ripe, to

pick them from the bushes! What excursions we have had, on the slopes

covered with thin, tough grass, burnt yellow by the sun! I have vivid

memories of such mornings, and my children will have them too.



Little Paul has nimble legs, a ready hand, and a piercing eye. He

inspects the clumps of everlastings, and peers closely into the bushes.

Suddenly a big Grey Locust flies out like a little bird. The hunter

first makes off at full speed, then stops and gazes in wonder at this

mock Swallow flying far away. He will have better luck another time. We

shall not go home without a few of those magnificent prizes.



Marie Pauline, who is younger than her brother, watches patiently for

the Italian Locust, with his pink wings and carmine hind-legs; but she

really prefers another, the most ornamented of them all. Her favourite

wears a St. Andrew’s cross on the small of his back, which is marked by

four white, slanting stripes. He wears, too, patches of green, the

colour of verdigris on bronze. With her hand raised in the air, ready

to swoop down, she approaches very softly, stooping low. Whoosh! That’s

done it! The treasure is quickly thrust head-first into a paper funnel,

and plunges with one bound to the bottom of it.



One by one our boxes are filled. Before the heat becomes too great to

bear we are in possession of a number of specimens. Imprisoned in my

cages, perhaps they will teach us something. In any case the Locusts

have given pleasure to three people at a small cost.



Locusts have a bad reputation, I know. The textbooks describe them as

noxious. I take the liberty of doubting whether they deserve this

reproach, except, of course, in the case of the terrible ravagers who

are the scourge of Africa and the East. Their ill repute has been

fastened on all Locusts, though they are, I consider, more useful than

harmful. As far as I know, our peasants have never complained of them.

What damage do they do?



They nibble the tops of the tough grasses which the Sheep refuses to

touch; they prefer the thin, poor grass to the fat pastures; they

browse on barren land that can support none but them; they live on food

that no stomach but theirs could use.



Besides, by the time they frequent the fields the green wheat—the only

thing that might tempt them—has long ago yielded its grain and

disappeared. If they happen to get into the kitchen-gardens and take a

few bites, it is not a crime. A man can console himself for a piece

bitten out of a leaf or two of salad.



To measure the importance of things by one’s own turnip-patch is a

horrible method. The short-sighted man would upset the order of the

universe rather than sacrifice a dozen plums. If he thinks of the

insect at all, it is only to kill it.



And yet, think what the consequences would be if all the Locusts were

killed. In September and October the Turkeys are driven into the

stubble, under charge of a child armed with two long reeds. The expanse

over which the gobbling flock slowly spreads is bare, dry, and burnt by

the sun. At the most, a few ragged thistles raise their heads. What do

the birds do in this famine-stricken desert? They cram themselves, that

they may do honour to the Christmas table; they wax fat; their flesh

becomes firm and good to eat. And pray, what do they cram themselves

with? With Locusts. They snap them up, one here one there, till their

greedy crops are filled with the delicious stuffing, which costs

nothing, though its rich flavour will greatly improve the Christmas

Turkey.



When the Guinea-fowl roams about the farm, uttering her rasping cry,

what is it she seeks? Seeds, no doubt; but above all Locusts, which

puff her out under the wings with a pad of fat, and give a better

flavour to her flesh. The Hen, too, much to our advantage, is just as

fond of them. She well knows the virtues of that dainty dish, which

acts as a tonic and makes her lay more eggs. When left at liberty she

rarely fails to lead her family to the stubble-fields, so that they may

learn to snap up the nice mouthful skilfully. In fact, every bird in

the poultry-yard finds the Locust a valuable addition to his bill of

fare.



It is still more important outside the poultry-yard. Any who is a

sportsman, and knows the value of the Red-legged Patridge, the glory of

our southern hills, should open the crop of the bird he has just shot.

He will find it, nine times out of ten, more or less crammed with

Locusts. The Partridge dotes on them, preferring them to seeds as long

as he can catch them. This highly-flavoured, nourishing fare would

almost make him forget the existence of seeds, if it were only there

all the year round.



The Wheat-ear, too, who is so good to eat, prefers the Locust to any

other food. And all the little birds of passage which, when autumn

comes, call a halt in Provence before their great pilgrimage, fatten

themselves with Locusts as a preparation for the journey.



Nor does man himself scorn them. An Arab author tells us:



“Grasshoppers”—(he means Locusts)—“are of good nourishment for men and

Camels. Their claws, wings, and head are taken away, and they are eaten

fresh or dried, either roast or boiled, and served with flesh, flour,

and herbs.



”... Camels eat them greedily, and are given them dried or roast,

heaped in a hollow between two layers of charcoal. Thus also do the

Nubians eat them....



“Once, when the Caliph Omar was asked if it were lawful to eat

Grasshoppers, he made answer:



”’Would that I had a basket of them to eat.’



“Wherefore, from this testimony, it is very sure that, by the Grace of

God, Grasshoppers were given to man for his nourishment.”



Without going as far as the Arab I feel prepared to say that the Locust

is a gift of God to a multitude of birds. Reptiles also hold him in

esteem. I have found him in the stomach of the Eyed Lizard, and have

often caught the little Grey Lizard of the walls in the act of carrying

him off.



Even the fish revel in him, when good fortune brings him to them. The

Locust leaps blindly, and without definite aim: he comes down wherever

he is shot by the springs in his legs. If the place where he falls

happens to be water, a fish gobbles him up at once. Anglers sometimes

bait their hooks with a specially attractive Locust.



As for his being fit nourishment for man, except in the form of

Partridge and young Turkey, I am a little doubtful. Omar, the mighty

Caliph who destroyed the library of Alexandria, wished for a basket of

Locusts, it is true, but his digestion was evidently better than his

brains. Long before his day St. John the Baptist lived in the desert on

Locusts and wild honey; but in his case they were not eaten because

they were good.



Wild honey from the pots of the Mason-bees is very agreeable food, I

know. Wishing to taste the Locust also I once caught some, and had them

cooked as the Arab author advised. We all of us, big and little, tried

the queer dish at dinner. It was much nicer than the Cicadæ praised by

Aristotle. I would go to the length of saying it is good—without,

however, feeling any desire for more.









II



THEIR MUSICAL TALENT



The Locust possesses musical powers wherewith to express his joys.

Consider him at rest, blissfully digesting his meal and enjoying the

sunshine. With sharp strokes of the bow, three or four times repeated

with a pause between, he plays his tune. He scrapes his sides with his

great hind-legs, using now one, now the other, and now both at a time.



The result is very poor, so slight indeed that I am obliged to make use

of little Paul’s sharp ear to make sure that there is a sound at all.

Such as it is, it is like the squeaking of a needle-point pushed across

a sheet of paper. There you have the whole song, which is very nearly

silence.



We can expect no more than this from the Locust’s very unfinished

instrument. There is nothing here like the Cricket’s toothed bow and

sounding-board. The lower edge of the wing-cases is rubbed by the

thighs, but though both wing-cases and thighs are powerful they have no

roughnesses to supply friction, and there is no sign of teeth.



This artless attempt at a musical instrument can produce no more sound

than a dry membrane will emit when you rub it yourself. And for the

sake of this small result the insect lifts and lowers its thigh in

sharp jerks, and appears perfectly satisfied. It rubs its sides very

much as we rub our hands together in sign of contentment, with no

intention of making a sound. That is its own particular way of

expressing its joy in life.



Observe the Locust when the sky is partly covered with clouds, and the

sun shines only at times. There comes a rift in the clouds. At once the

thighs begin to scrape, becoming more and more active as the sun grows

hotter. The strains are brief, but they are repeated as long as the

sunshine continues. The sky becomes overcast. Then and there the song

ceases; but is renewed with the next gleam of sunlight, always in brief

outburst. There is no mistaking it: here, in these fond lovers of the

light, we have a mere expression of happiness. The Locust has his

moments of gaiety when his crop is full and the sun is kind.



Not all the Locusts indulge in this joyous rubbing.



The Tryxalis, who has a pair of immensely long hind-legs, keeps up a

gloomy silence when even the sunshine is brightest. I have never seen

him move his shanks like a bow; he seems unable to use them—so long are

they—for anything but hopping.



The big Grey Locust, who often visits me in the enclosure, even in the

depth of winter, is also dumb in consequence of the excessive length of

his legs. But he has a peculiar way of diverting himself. In calm

weather, when the sun is hot, I surprise him in the rosemary bushes

with his wings unfurled and fluttering rapidly, as though for flight.

He keeps up this performance for a quarter of an hour at a time. His

fluttering is so gentle, in spite of its extreme speed, that it creates

hardly any rustling sound.



Others are still worse off. One of these is the Pedestrian Locust, who

strolls on foot on the ridges of the Ventoux amid sheets of Alpine

flowers, silvery, white, and rosy. His colouring is as fresh as that of

the flowers. The sunlight, which is clearer on those heights than it is

below, has made him a costume combining beauty with simplicity. His

body is pale brown above and yellow below, his big thighs are coral

red, his hind-legs a glorious azure-blue, with an ivory anklet in

front. But in spite of being such a dandy he wears too short a coat.



His wing-cases are merely wrinkled slips, and his wings no more than

stumps. He is hardly covered as far as the waist. Any one seeing him

for the first time takes him for a larva, but he is indeed the

full-grown insect, and he will wear this incomplete garment to the end.



With this skimpy jacket of course, music is impossible to him. The big

thighs are there; but there are no wing-cases, no grating edge for the

bow to rub upon. The other Locusts cannot be described as noisy, but

this one is absolutely dumb. In vain have the most delicate ears

listened with all their might. This silent one must have other means of

expressing his joys. What they are I do not know.



Nor do I know why the insect remains without wings, a plodding

wayfarer, when his near kinsmen on the same Alpine slopes have

excellent means of flying. He possesses the beginnings of wings and

wing-cases, gifts inherited by the larva; but he does not develop these

beginnings and make use of them. He persists in hopping, with no

further ambition: he is satisfied to go on foot, to remain a Pedestrian

Locust, when he might, one would think, acquire wings. To flit rapidly

from crest to crest, over valleys deep in snow, to fly from one pasture

to another, would certainly be great advantages to him. His

fellow-dwellers on the mountain-tops possess wings and are all the

better for them. It would be very profitable to extract from their

sheaths the sails he keeps packed away in useless stumps; and he does

not do it. Why?



No one knows why. Anatomy has these puzzles, these surprises, these

sudden leaps, which defy our curiosity. In the presence of such

profound problems the best thing is to bow in all humility, and pass

on.









III



THEIR EARLY DAYS



The Locust mother is not, in all cases, a model of affection. The

Italian Locust, having laboriously half-buried herself in the sand,

lays her eggs there and immediately bounds away. She gives not a look

at the eggs, nor makes the least attempt to cover the hole where they

lie. It closes of its own accord, as best it can, by the natural

falling-in of the sand. It is an extremely casual performance, marked

by an utter absence of maternal care.



Others do not forsake their eggs so recklessly. The ordinary Locust

with the blue-and-black wings, for instance, after leaving her eggs in

the sand, lifts her hind-legs high, sweeps some sand into the hole, and

presses it down by stamping it rapidly. It is a pretty sight to watch

the swift action of her slender legs, giving alternate kicks to the

opening they are plugging. With this lively trampling the entrance to

the home is closed and hidden away. The hole that contains the eggs

completely disappears, so that no ill-intentioned creature could find

it by sight alone.



Nor is this all. The power that works the two rammers lies in the

hinder thighs, which, as they rise and fall, scrape lightly against the

edge of the wing-cases. This scraping produces a faint sound, similar

to that with which the insect placidly lulls itself to sleep in the

sun.



The Hen salutes with a song of gladness the egg she just laid; she

announces her performance to the whole neighbourhood. The Locust

celebrates the same event with her thin scraper. “I have buried

underground,” she says, “the treasure of the future.”



Having made the nest safe she leaves the spot, refreshes herself after

her exertions with a few mouthfuls of green stuff, and prepares to

begin again.



The Grey Locust mother is armed at the tip of her body—and so are other

female Locusts in varying degrees—with four short tools, arranged in

pairs and shaped like a hooked fingernail. On the upper pair, which are

larger than the others, these hooks are turned upwards; on the lower

and smaller pair they are turned downwards. They form a sort of claw,

and are scooped out slightly, like a spoon. These are the pick-axes,

the boring-tools with which the Grey Locust works. With these she bites

into the soil, lifting the dry earth a little, as quietly as if she

were digging in soft mould. She might be working in butter; and yet

what the bore digs into is hard, unyielding earth.



The best site for laying the eggs is not always found at the first

attempt. I have seen the mother make five wells one after the other

before finding a suitable place. When at last the business is over, and

the insect begins to rise from the hole in which she is partly buried,

one can see that she is covering her eggs with milk-white foam, similar

to that of the Mantis.



This foamy matter often forms a button at the entrance to the well, a

knot which stands up and attracts the eye by its whiteness against the

grey background of the soil. It is soft and sticky, but hardens pretty

soon. When this closing button is finished the mother moves away and

troubles no more about her eggs, of which she lays a fresh batch

elsewhere after a few days.



Sometimes the foamy paste does not reach the surface; it stops some way

down, and before long is covered with the sand that slips from the

edge. But in the case of my Locusts in captivity I always know, even

when it is concealed, exactly where the barrel of eggs lies. Its

structure is always the same, though there are variations in detail. It

is always a sheath of solidified foam. Inside, there is nothing but

foam and eggs. The eggs all lie in the lower portion, packed one on top

of another; and the upper part consists only of soft, yielding foam.

This portion plays an important part when the young larvæ are hatched.

I will call it the ascending-shaft.



The wonderful egg-casket of the Mantis is not the result of any special

talent which the mother can exercise at will. It is due to mechanism.

It happens of itself. In the same way the Locusts have no industry of

their own, especially devised for laying eggs in a keg of froth. The

foam is produced with the eggs, and the arrangement of eggs at the

bottom and centre, and froth on the outside and the top, is purely

mechanical.



There are many Locusts whose egg-cases have to last through the winter,

since they do not open until the fine weather returns. Though the soil

is loose and dusty at first, it becomes caked together by the winter

rains. Supposing that the hatching takes place a couple of inches below

the surface, how is this crust, this hard ceiling, to be broken? How is

the larva to come up from below? The mother’s unconscious art has

arranged for that.



The young Locust finds above him, when he comes out of the egg, not

rough sand and hardened earth, but a straight tunnel, with solid walls

that keep all difficulties away. This ascending-shaft is full of foam,

which the larva can easily penetrate, and which will bring him quite

close to the surface. Here only a finger’s-breadth of serious work

remains to be done.



The greater part of the journey, therefore, is accomplished without

effort. Though the Locust’s building is done quite mechanically,

without the least intelligence, it is certainly singularly well

devised.



The little creature has now to complete his deliverance. On leaving his

shell he is of a whitish colour, clouded with light red. His progress

is made by worm-like movements; and, so that it may be as easy as

possible, he is hatched, like the young Grasshopper, in a temporary

jacket which keeps his antennæ and legs closely fixed to his body. Like

the White-faced Decticus he keeps his boring-tool at his neck. Here

there is a kind of tumour that swells and subsides alternately, and

strikes the obstacle before it as regularly as a piston. When I see

this soft bladder trying to overcome the hardness of the earth I come

to the unhappy creature’s aid, and damp the layer of soil.



Even then the work is terribly hard. How it must labour, the poor

little thing, how it must persevere with its throbbing head and

writhing loins, before it can clear a passage for itself! The wee

mite’s efforts show us plainly that the journey to the light of day is

an enormous undertaking, in which the greater number would die but for

the help of the exit-tunnel, the mother’s work.



When the tiny insect reaches the surface at last, it rests for a moment

to recover from all that fatigue. Then suddenly the blister swells and

throbs, and the temporary jacket splits. The rags are pushed back by

the hind-legs, which are the last to be stripped. The thing is done:

the creature is free, pale in colouring as yet, but possessing its

final form as a larva.



Immediately the hind-legs, hitherto stretched in a straight line, fall

into the correct position. The legs fold under the great thighs, and

the spring is ready to work. It works, Little Locust makes his entrance

into the world, and hops for the first time. I offer him a bit of

lettuce the size of my fingernail. He refuses it. Before taking

nourishment he must first mature and grow in the sun.









IV



THEIR FINAL CHANGE



I have just beheld a stirring sight: the last change of a Locust, the

full-grown insect emerging from his larval skin. It is magnificent. The

object of my enthusiasm is the Grey Locust, the giant who is so common

on the vines at vintage-time, in September. On account of his size—he

is as long as my finger—he is easier to observe than any other of his

tribe. The event took place in one of my cages.



The fat, ungraceful larva, a rough sketch of the perfect insect, is

usually pale green; but some are blue-green, dirty yellow, red-brown,

or even ashen-grey, like the grey of the full-grown Locust. The

hind-legs, which are as powerful as those of mature age, have a great

haunch striped with red and a long shank shaped like a two-edged saw.



The wing-cases are at present two skimpy, triangular pinions, of which

the free ends stand up like pointed gables. These two coat-tails, of

which the material seems to have been clipped short with ridiculous

meanness, just cover the creature’s nakedness at the small of the back,

and shelter two lean strips, the germs of the wings. In brief, the

sumptuous slender sails of the near future are at present sheer rags,

of such meagre size as to be grotesque. From these miserable envelopes

there will come a marvel of stately elegance.



The first thing to be done is to burst the old tunic. All along the

corselet of the insect there is a line that is weaker than the rest of

the skin. Waves of blood can be seen throbbing within, rising and

falling alternately, distending the skin until at last it splits at the

line of least resistance, and opens as though the two symmetrical

halves had been soldered. The split is continued some little way back,

and runs between the fastenings of the wings: it goes up the head as

far as the base of the antennæ, where it sends a short branch to right

and left.



Through this break the back is seen, quite soft, pale, hardly tinged

with grey. Slowly it swells into a larger and larger hunch. At last it

is wholly released. The head follows, pulled out of its mask, which

remains in its place, intact in the smallest particular, but looking

strange with its great eyes that do not see. The sheaths of the

antennæ, without a wrinkle, with nothing out of order, and with their

usual position unchanged, hang over this dead face, which is now half

transparent.



This means that the antennæ within, although fitted into narrow sheaths

that enclose them as precisely as gloves, are able to withdraw without

disturbing the covers in the smallest degree, or even wrinkling them.

The contents manage to slip out as easily as a smooth, straight object

could slip from a loose sheath. This mechanism is even more remarkable

in the case of the hind-legs.



Now it is the turn of the fore-legs and intermediary legs to shed their

armlets and gauntlets, always without the least rent, however small,

without a crease of rumpled material, or a trace of any change in the

natural position. The insect is now fixed to the top of the cage only

by the claws of the long hind-legs. It hangs perpendicularly by four

tiny hooks, head downwards, and it swings like a pendulum if I touch

the wire-gauze.



The wing-cases and wings now emerge. These are four narrow strips,

faintly grooved and looking like bits of paper ribbon. At this stage

they are scarcely a quarter of their final length. They are so limp

that they bend under their own weight and sprawl along the insect’s

sides in the wrong direction, with their points towards the head of the

Locust. Imagine four blades of thick grass, bent and battered by a

rain-storm, and you will have a fair picture of the pitiable bunch

formed by the future wings.



The hind-legs are next released. The great thighs appear, tinted on

their inner surface with pale pink, which will soon turn into a streak

of bright crimson. They come out of the sheath quite easily, for the

thick haunch makes way for the tapering knuckle.



The shank is a different matter. The shank of the full-grown insect

bristles throughout its length with a double row of hard, pointed

spikes. Moreover, the lower extremity ends in four large spurs. It is a

genuine saw, but with two parallel sets of teeth.



Now this awkwardly shaped skin is enclosed in a sheath that is formed

in exactly the same way. Each spur is fitted into a similar spur, each

tooth into the hollow of a similar tooth. And the sheath is as close

and as thin as a coat of varnish.



Nevertheless the saw-like skin slips out of its long narrow case

without catching in it at any point whatever. If I had not seen this

happen over and over again I could never have believed it. The saw does

no injury to the dainty scabbard which a puff of my breath is enough to

tear; the formidable rake slips through without leaving the least

scratch behind it.



One would expect that, because of the spiked armour, the envelope of

the leg would strip off in scales coming loose of themselves, or would

be rubbed off like dead skin. But the reality exceeds all possible

expectation. From the spurs and spikes of the infinitely thin envelope

there are drawn spurs and spikes so strong that they can cut soft wood.

This is done without violence, the discarded skin remains where it was,

hanging by the claws to the top of the cage, uncreased and untorn. The

magnifying-glass shows not a trace of rough usage.



If it were suggested that one should draw out a saw from some sort of

gold-beater’s skin sheath which had been exactly moulded on the steel,

and that one should perform the operation without making the least

tear, one would simply laugh. The thing would be impossible. Yet Nature

makes light of such impossibilities; she can realise the absurd, in

case of need.



The difficulty is overcome in this way. While the leg is being

liberated it is not rigid, as it will presently be. It is soft and

highly flexible. Where it is exposed to view I see it bending and

curving: it is as supple as elastic cord. And farther on, where it is

hidden, it is certainly still softer, it is almost fluid. The teeth of

the saw are there, but have none of their future sharpness. The spikes

lie backwards when the leg is about to be drawn back: as it emerges

they stand up and become solid. A few minutes later the leg has

attained the proper state of stiffness.



And now the fine tunic is wrinkled and rumpled, and pushed back along

the body towards the tip. Except at this point the Locust is bare.

After a rest of twenty minutes he makes a supreme effort; he raises

himself as he hangs, and grabs hold of his cast skin. Then he climbs

higher, and fixes himself to the wire of the cage with his four front

feet. He loosens the empty husk with one last shake, and it falls to

the ground. The Locust’s transformation is conducted in much the same

way as the Cicada’s.



The insect is now standing erect, and therefore the flexible wings are

in the right position. They are no longer curved backwards like the

petals of a flower, they are no longer upside down; but they still look

shabby and insignificant. All that we see is a few wrinkles, a few

winding furrows, which tell us that the stumps are bundles of cunningly

folded material, arranged so as to take up as little space as possible.



Very gradually they expand, so gradually that their unfolding cannot be

seen even under the microscope. The process continues for three hours.

Then the wings and wing-cases stand up on the Locust’s back like a huge

set of sails, sometimes colourless, sometimes pale-green, like the

Cicada’s wings at the beginning. One is amazed at their size when one

thinks of the paltry bundles that represented them at first. How could

so much stuff find room there?



The fairy tale tells us of a grain of hempseed that contained the

under-linen of a princess. Here is a grain that is even more

astonishing. The one in the story took years and years to sprout and

multiply, till at last it yielded the hemp required for the trousseau:

the Locust’s tiny bundle supplies a sumptuous set of sails in three

hours. They are formed of exquisitely fine gauze, a network of

innumerable tiny bars.



In the wing of the larva we can see only a few uncertain outlines of

the future lace-work. There is nothing to suggest the marvellous fabric

whose every mesh will have its form and place arranged for it, with

absolute exactness. Yet it is there, as the oak is inside the acorn.



There must be something to make the matter of the wing shape itself

into a sheet of gauze, into a labyrinth of meshes. There must be an

original plan, an ideal pattern which gives each atom its proper place.

The stones of our buildings are arranged in accordance with the

architect’s plan; they form an imaginary building before they exist as

a real one. In the same way a Locust’s wing, that sumptuous piece of

lace emerging from a miserable sheath, speaks to us of another

Architect, the Author of the plans which Nature must follow in her

labours.

















CHAPTER XVI



THE ANTHRAX FLY





I



A STRANGE MEAL



I made the acquaintance of the Anthrax in 1855 at Carpentras, when I

was searching the slopes of which I have already told you, the slopes

beloved of the Anthophora-bees. Her curious pupa, so powerfully

equipped to force an outlet for the perfect insect, which is incapable

of the least effort, seemed worthy of investigation. For that pupa is

armed with a ploughshare in front, a trident at its tail, and rows of

harpoons on its back, with which to rip open the Osmia-bee’s cocoon and

break through the hard crust of the hill-side.



Let us, some day in July, knock away the pebbles that fasten the nests

of the Mason-bees to the sloping ground on which they are built.

Loosened by the shock, the dome comes off cleanly, all in one piece.

Moreover—and this is a great advantage—the cells are all exposed at the

base of the nest, for at this point they have no other wall than the

surface of the pebble. Without any scraping, which would be wearisome

work for us and dangerous to the Bees, we have all the cells before our

eyes, together with their contents—a silky, amber-yellow cocoon, as

delicate and transparent as the skin of an onion. Let us split the

dainty wrappers with the scissors, cell by cell, one after another. If

fortune be at all kind, as it always is to the persevering, we shall

end by finding cocoons harbouring two larvæ together, one more or less

faded in appearance, the other fresh and plump. We shall also find

some, no less plentiful, in which the withered larva is accompanied by

a family of little grubs wriggling uneasily round it.



It is easy to see that a tragedy is happening under the cover of the

cocoon. The flabby, faded larva is the Mason-bee’s. A month ago, in

June, having finished its ration of honey, it wove itself a silken

sheath in which to take the long sleep that precedes its

transformation. It was bulging with fat, and was a rich and a

defenceless morsel for any enemy that could reach it. And enemies did

reach it. In spite of obstacles that might well seem insurmountable,

the wall of mortar and dome-shaped cover, the enemy grubs appeared in

the secret retreat, and began to eat the sleeper. Three different

species take part in this murderous work, often in the same nest, in

adjoining cells. We will concern ourselves only with the Anthrax Fly.



The grub, when it has eaten its victim and is left alone in the

Mason-bee’s cocoon, is a naked worm, smooth, legless, and blind. It is

creamy-white, and each of its segments or divisions forms a perfect

ring, very much curved when at rest, but almost straight when

disturbed. Including the head I can count thirteen segments,

well-marked in the middle of the body, but in the fore-part difficult

to distinguish. The white, soft head shows no sign of any mouth, and is

no bigger than a tiny pin’s head. The grub has four pale red stigmata,

or openings through which to breathe, two in front and two behind, as

is the rule among Flies. It has no walking-apparatus whatever; it is

absolutely incapable of shifting its position. If I disturb its rest,

it curves and straightens itself alternately, tossing about violently

where it lies; but it does not manage to progress.



But the most interesting point about the grub of the Anthrax is its

manner of eating. A most unexpected fact attracts our attention: the

curious ease with which this larva leaves and returns to the Bee-grub

on which it is feeding. After watching flesh-eating grubs at hundreds

and hundreds of meals, I suddenly find myself confronted with a manner

of eating that is entirely unlike anything I ever saw before.



This, for instance, is the Amophila-grub’s way of devouring its

caterpillar. A hole is made in the victim’s side, and the head and neck

of the grub dives deep into the wound. It never withdraws its head,

never pauses to take breath. The voracious animal always goes forward,

chewing, swallowing, digesting, until the caterpillar’s skin is empty.

Once the meal is begun, the creature does not budge as long as the food

lasts. If moved by force it hesitates, and hunts about for the exact

spot where it left off eating; for if the caterpillar be attacked at a

fresh point it is liable to go bad.



In the case of the Anthrax-grub there is none of this mangling, none of

this persistent clinging to the original wound. If I tease it with the

tip of a pointed brush it at once retires, and there is no wound to be

seen on the victim, no sign of broken skin. Soon the grub once more

applies its pimple-head to its meal, at any point, no matter where, and

keeps itself fixed there without any effort. If I repeat the touch with

the brush I see the same sudden retreat and the same calm return to the

meal.



The ease with which this larva grips, leaves, and regrips its victim,

now here, now there, and always without a wound, shows that the mouth

of the Anthrax is not armed with fangs that can dig into the skin and

tear it. If the flesh were gashed by pincers of any kind, one or two

attempts would be necessary before they could leave go or take hold

again; and besides, the skin would be broken. There is nothing of the

kind: the grub simply glues its mouth to its prey, and withdraws it. It

does not chew its food like the other flesh-eating grub: it does not

eat, it inhales.



This remarkable fact led me to examine the mouth under the microscope.

It is a small conical crater, with yellowish-red sides and very faint

lines running round it. At the bottom of this funnel is the opening of

the throat. There is not the slightest trace of mandibles or jaws, or

any object capable of seizing and grinding food. There is nothing at

all but the bowl-shaped opening. I know of no other example of a mouth

like this, which I can only compare to a cupping-glass. Its attack is a

mere kiss, but what a cruel kiss!



To observe the working of this curious machine I placed a new-born

Anthrax-grub, together with its prey, in a glass tube. Here I was able

to watch the strange repast from beginning to end.



The Anthrax-grub—the Bee’s uninvited guest—is fixed by its mouth or

sucker to any convenient part of the plump Bee-grub. It is ready to

break off its kiss suddenly, should anything disturb it, and to resume

it as easily when it wishes. After three or four days of this curious

contact the Bee-grub, formerly so fat, glossy, and healthy, begins to

look withered. Her sides fall in, her fresh colour fades, her skin

becomes covered with little folds, and she is evidently shrinking. A

week is hardly passed when these signs of exhaustion increase to a

startling degree. The victim is flabby and wrinkled, as though borne

down by her own weight. If I move her from her place she flops and

sprawls like a half-filled indiarubber bottle. But the kiss of the

Anthrax goes on emptying her: soon she is but a sort of shrivelled

bladder, growing smaller and smaller from hour to hour. At length,

between the twelfth and fifteenth day, all that remains of the

Mason-bee’s larva is a little white grain, hardly as large as a pin’s

head.



If I soften this small remnant in water, and then blow into it through

a very fine glass tube, the skin fills out and resumes the shape of the

larva. There is no outlet anywhere for the compressed air. It is

intact: it is nowhere broken. This proves that, under the cupping-glass

of the Anthrax, the skin has been drained through its pores.



The devouring grub, in making its attack, chooses its moment very

cunningly. It is but an atom. Its mother, a feeble Fly, has done

nothing to help it. She has no weapons; and she is quite incapable of

penetrating the Mason-bee’s fortress. The future meal of the Anthrax

has not been paralysed, nor injured in any way. The parasite arrives—we

shall presently see how; it arrives, scarcely visible, and having made

its preparations it installs itself upon its monstrous victim, whom it

is going to drain to the very husk. And the victim, though not

paralysed nor in any way lacking in vitality, lets it have its way, and

is sucked dry without a tremor or a quiver of resistance. No corpse

could show greater indifference to a bite.



Had the Anthrax-grub appeared upon the scene earlier, when the Bee-grub

was eating her store of honey, things would surely have gone badly with

it. The victim, feeling herself bled to death by that ravenous kiss,

would have protested with much wriggling of body and grinding of

mandibles. The intruder would have perished. But at the hour chosen so

wisely by it all danger is over. Enclosed in her silken sheath, the

larva is in the torpid state that precedes her transformation into a

Bee. Her condition is not death, but neither is it life. So there is no

sign of irritation when I stir her with a needle, nor when the

Anthrax-grub attacks her.



There is another marvellous point about the meal of the Anthrax-grub.

The Bee-grub remains alive until the very end. Were she really dead it

would, in less than twenty-four hours, turn a dirty-brown colour and

decompose. But during the whole fortnight that the meal lasts, the

butter-colour of the victim continues unaltered, and there is no sign

of putrefaction. Life persists until the body is reduced to nothing.

And yet, if I myself give her a wound, the whole body turns brown and

soon begins to rot. The prick of a needle makes her decompose. A mere

nothing kills it; the atrocious draining of its strength does not.



The only explanation I can suggest is this, and it is no more than a

suggestion. Nothing but fluids can be drawn by the sucker of the

Anthrax through the unpierced skin of the Bee-grub: no part of the

breathing-apparatus or the nervous system can pass. As these two

essentials remain uninjured, life goes on until the fluid contents of

the skin are entirely exhausted. On the other hand, if I myself injure

the larva of the Bee, I disturb the nervous or the air-conducting

system, and the bruised part spreads a taint all over the body.



Liberty is a noble possession, even in an insignificant grub; but it

has its dangers everywhere. The Anthrax escapes these dangers only on

the condition of being, so to speak, muzzled. It finds its own way into

the Bee’s dwelling, quite independently of its mother. Unlike most of

the other flesh-eating larvæ it is not fixed by its mother’s care at

the most suitable spot for its meal. It is perfectly free to attack its

prey where it chooses. If it had a set of carving-tools, of jaws and

mandibles, it would meet with a speedy death. It would split open its

victim and bite it at random, and its food would rot. Its freedom of

action would kill it.









II



THE WAY OUT



There are other grub-eaters which drain their victims without wounding

them, but not one, among those I know, reaches such perfection in this

art as the Anthrax-grub. Nor can any be compared with the Anthrax as

regards the means brought into play in order to leave the cell. The

others, when they become perfect insects, have implements for mining

and demolishing. They have stout mandibles, capable of digging the

ground, of pulling down clay partition-walls, and even of grinding the

Mason-bee’s tough cement to powder. The Anthrax, in her final form, has

nothing like this. Her mouth is a short, soft proboscis, good at most

for soberly licking the sugary fluid from the flowers. Her slim legs

are so feeble that to move a grain of sand would be too heavy a task

for them, enough to strain every joint. Her great stiff wings, which

must remain full-spread, do not allow her to slip through a narrow

passage. Her delicate suit of downy velvet, from which you take the

bloom by merely breathing on it, could not withstand the contact of

rough tunnels. She is unable to enter the Mason-bee’s cells to lay her

egg, and equally unable to leave it when the time comes to free herself

and appear in broad daylight.



And the grub, for its part, is powerless to prepare the way for the

coming flight. That buttery little cylinder, owning no tools but a

sucker so flimsy and small that it is barely visible through the

magnifying-glass, is even weaker than the full-grown insect, which at

least flies and walks. The Mason-bee’s cell seems to this creature like

a granite cave. How can it get out? The problems would be insoluble to

these two incapables, if nothing else played its part.



Among insects the pupa—the transition stage, when the creature is no

longer a grub but is not yet a perfect insect—is generally a striking

picture of complete weakness. A sort of mummy, tightly bound in

swaddling-clothes, motionless and unconscious, it awaits its

transformation. Its tender flesh is hardly solid; its limbs are

transparent as crystals, and are held fixed in their place, lest a

movement should disturb the work of development. In the same way, to

secure his recovery, a patient whose bones are broken is held bound in

the surgeon’s bandages.



Well, here, by a strange reversal of the usual state of things, a

stupendous task is laid upon the pupa of the Anthrax. It is the pupa

that has to toil, to strive, to exhaust itself in efforts to burst the

wall and open the way out. To the pupa falls the desperate duty, to the

full-grown insect the joy of resting in the sun. The result of these

unusual conditions is that the pupa possesses a strange and complicated

set of tools that is in no way suggested by the grub nor recalled by

the perfect Fly. This set of tools includes a collection of

ploughshares, gimlets, hooks, spears, and other implements that are not

found in our trades nor named in our dictionaries. I will do my best to

describe the strange gear.



By the time that July is nearly over the Anthrax has finished eating

the Bee-grub. From that time until the following May it lies motionless

in the Mason-bee’s cocoon, beside the remains of its victim. When the

fine days of May arrive it shrivels, and casts its skin; and it is then

that the pupa appears, fully clad in a stout, reddish, horny hide.



The head is round and large, and is crowned on top and in front with a

sort of diadem of six hard, sharp, black spikes, arranged in

semi-circle. This sixfold ploughshare is the chief digging-implement.

Lower down the instrument is finished off with a separate group of two

small black spikes, placed close together.



Four segments in the middle of the body are armed on the back with a

belt of little horny arches, set in the skin upside down. They are

arranged parallel to one another, and are finished at both ends with a

hard, black point. The belt forms a double row of little thorns, with a

hollow in between. There are about two hundred spikes on the four

segments. The use of this rasp, or grater, is obvious: it helps the

pupa to steady itself on the wall of the gallery as the work proceeds.

Thus anchored on a host of points the brave pioneer is able to hit the

obstacle harder with its crown of awls. Moreover, to make it more

difficult for the instrument to recoil, there are long, stiff bristles,

pointing backwards, scattered here and there among the rows of spikes.

There are some also on other segments, and on the sides they are

arranged in clusters. Two more belts of thorns, less powerful than the

others, and a sheaf of eight spikes at the tip of the body—two of which

are longer than the rest—completes the strange boring-machine that

prepares an outlet for the feeble Anthrax.



About the end of May the colouring of the pupa alters, and shows that

the transformation is close at hand. The head and fore-part of the

creature become a handsome, shiny black, prophetic of the black livery

worn by the coming insect. I was anxious to see the boring-tools in

action, and, since this could not be done in natural conditions, I

confined the Anthrax in a glass tube, between two thick stoppers of

sorghum-pith. The space between the stoppers was about the same size as

the Bee’s cell, and the partitions, though not so strong as the Bee’s

masonry, were firm enough to withstand considerable effort. On the

other hand the side-walls, being of glass, could not be gripped by the

toothed belts, which made matters much harder for the worker.



No matter: in the space of a single day the pupa pierced the front

partition, three-quarters of an inch thick. I saw it fixing its double

ploughshare against the back partition, arching itself into a bow, and

then suddenly releasing itself and striking the stopper in front of it

with its barbed forehead. Under the blows of the spikes the pith slowly

crumbled to pieces, atom by atom. At long intervals the method of work

changed. The animal drove its crown of awls into the pith, and fidgeted

and swayed about for a time; then the blows began again. Now and then

there were intervals of rest. At last the hole was made. The pupa

slipped into it, but did not pass through entirely. The head and chest

appeared beyond the hole, but the rest of the body remained held in the

tunnel.



The glass cell certainly puzzled my Anthrax. The hole through the pith

was wide and irregular: it was a clumsy breach and not a gallery. When

made through the Mason-bee’s walls it is fairly neat, and exactly of

the animal’s diameter. For narrowness and evenness in the exit-tunnel

are necessary. The pupa always remains half-caught in it, and even

pretty securely fixed by the graters on its back. Only the head and

chest emerge into the outer air. A fixed support is indispensable, for

without it the Anthrax could not issue from her horny sheath, unfurling

her great wings and drawing out her slender legs.



She therefore remains steadily fixed by the graters on her back, in the

narrow exit-gallery. All is now ready. The transformation begins. Two

slits appear on the head: one along the forehead, and a second,

crossing it, dividing the skull in two and extending down the chest.

Through this cross-shaped opening the Anthrax Fly suddenly appears. She

steadies herself upon her trembling legs, dries her wings and takes to

flight, leaving her cast skin at the doorway of the gallery. The

sad-coloured Fly has five or six weeks before her wherein to explore

the clay nests amid the thyme and to take her small share of the joys

of life.









III



THE WAY IN



If you have paid attention to this story of the Anthrax Fly, you must

have noticed that it is incomplete. The Fox in the fable saw how the

Lion’s visitors entered his den, but did not see how they went out.

With us the case is reversed: we know the way out of the Mason-bee’s

fortress, but we do not know the way in. To leave the cell whose owner

it has eaten, the Anthrax becomes a boring-tool. When the exit-tunnel

is opened this tool splits like a pod bursting in the sun, and from the

strong framework there escapes a dainty Fly. A soft bit of fluff that

contrasts strangely with the roughness of the prison whence it comes.

On this point we know pretty well what there is to know. But the

entrance of the grub into the cell puzzled me for a quarter of a

century.



It is plain that the mother cannot place her egg in the Bee’s cell,

which is closed and barricaded with a cement wall. To pierce it she

would have to become a boring-tool once more, and get into the cast-off

rags which she left at the doorway of the exit-tunnel. She would have

to become a pupa again. For the full-grown Fly has no claws, nor

mandibles, nor any implement capable of working its way through the

wall.



Can it be, then, the grub that makes its own way into the storeroom,

that same grub that we have seen sucking the life out of the Bee’s

larva? Let us call the creature to mind: a little oily sausage, which

stretches and curls up just where it lies, without being able to shift

its position. Its body is a smooth cylinder, its mouth a circular lip.

It has no means whatever of moving; not even a hair or a wrinkle to

enable it to crawl. It can do nothing but digest its food. It is even

less able than the mother to make its way into the Mason-bee’s

dwelling. And yet its provisions are there: they must be reached: it is

a matter of life and death. How does the Fly set about it? In the face

of this puzzle I resolved to attempt an almost impossible task and

watch the Anthrax from the moment it left the egg.



Since these Flies are not really plentiful in my own neighbourhood I

made an expedition to Carpentras, the dear little town where I spent my

twentieth year. The old college where I made my first attempts as a

teacher was unchanged in appearance. It still looked like a

penitentiary. In my early days it was considered unwholesome for boys

to be gay and active, so our system of education applied the remedy of

melancholy and gloom. Our houses of instruction were above all houses

of correction. In a yard between four walls, a sort of bear-pit, the

boys fought to make room for their games under a spreading plane-tree.

All round it were cells like horseboxes, without light or air: those

were the class-rooms.



I saw, too, the shop where I used to buy tobacco as I came out of the

college; and also my former dwelling, now occupied by monks. There, in

the embrasure of a window, sheltered from profane hands, between the

closed outer shutters and the panes, I kept my chemicals—bought for a

few sous saved out of the housekeeping money. My experiments, harmless

or dangerous, were made on a corner of the fire, beside the simmering

broth. How I should love to see that room again, where I pored over

mathematical problems; and my familiar friend the blackboard, which I

hired for five francs a year, and could never buy outright for want of

the necessary cash!



But I must return to my insects. My visit to Carpentras, unfortunately,

was made too late in the year to be very profitable. I saw only a few

Anthrax Flies hovering round the face of the cliff. Yet I did not

despair, because it was plain that these few were not there to take

exercise, but to settle their families.



So I took my stand at the foot of the rock, under a broiling sun, and

for half a day I followed the movements of my Flies. They flitted

quietly in front of the slope, a few inches away from the earthly

covering. They went from one Bee’s nest to another, but without

attempting to enter. For that matter, the attempt would be useless, for

the galleries are too narrow to admit their spreading wings. So they

simply explore the cliff, going to and fro, and up and down, with a

flight that was now sudden, now smooth and slow. From time to time I

saw one of them approach the wall and touch the earth suddenly with the

tip of her body. The proceeding took no longer than the twinkling of an

eye. When it was over the insect rested a moment, and then resumed

flight.



I was certain that, at the moment when the Fly tapped the earth, she

laid her eggs on the spot. Yet, though I rushed forward and examined

the place with my lens, I could see no egg. In spite of the closest

attention I could distinguish nothing. The truth is that my state of

exhaustion, together with the blinding light and scorching heat, made

it difficult for me to see anything. Afterwards, when I made the

acquaintance of the tiny thing that comes out of that egg, my failure

no longer surprised me: for even in the leisure and peace of my study I

have the greatest difficulty in finding the infinitesimal creature. How

then could I see the egg, worn out as I was under the sun-baked cliff?



None the less I was convinced that I had seen the Anthrax Flies

strewing their eggs, one by one, on the spots frequented by the Bees

who suit their grubs. They take no precaution to place the egg under

cover, and indeed the structure of the mother makes any such precaution

impossible. The egg, that delicate object, is laid roughly in the

blazing sun, among grains of sand, in some wrinkle of the chalk. It is

the business of the young grub to manage as best it can.



The next year I continued my investigations, this time on the Anthrax

of the Chalicodoma, a Bee that abounds in my own neighbourhood. Every

morning I took the field at nine o’clock, when the sun begins to be

unendurable. I was prepared to come back with my head aching from the

glare, if only I could bring home the solution of my puzzle. The

greater the heat, the better my chances of success. What gives me

torture fills the insect with delight; what prostrates me braces the

Fly.



The road shimmers like a sheet of molten steel. From the dusty,

melancholy olive-trees rises a mighty, throbbing hum, the concert of

the Cicadæ, who sway and rustle with increasing frenzy as the

temperature increases. The Cicada of the Ash adds its strident

scrapings to the single note of the Common Cicada. This is the moment!

For five or six weeks, oftenest in the morning, sometimes in the

afternoon, I set myself to explore the rocky waste.



There were plenty of the nests I wanted, but I could not see a single

Anthrax on their surface. Not one settled in front of me to lay her

egg. At most, from time to time, I could see one passing far away, with

an impetuous rush. I would lose her in the distance; and that was all.

It was impossible to be present at the laying of the egg. In vain I

enlisted the services of the small boys who keep the sheep in our

meadows, and talked to them of a big black Fly and the nests on which

she ought to settle. By the end of August my last illusions were

dispelled. Not one of us had succeeded in seeing the big black Fly

perching on the dome of the Mason-bee.



The reason is, I believe, that she never perches there. She comes and

goes in every direction across the stony plain. Her practised eye can

detect, as she flies, the earthen dome which she is seeking, and having

found it she swoops down, leaves her egg on it, and makes off without

setting foot on the ground. Should she take a rest it will be

elsewhere, on the soil, on a stone, on a tuft of lavender or thyme. It

is no wonder that neither I nor my young shepherds could find her egg.



Meanwhile I searched the Mason-bees’ nests for grubs just out of the

egg. My shepherds procured me heaps of the nests, enough to fill

baskets and baskets; and these I inspected at leisure on my work-table.

I took the cocoons from the cells, and examined them within and

without: my lens explored their innermost recesses, the sleeping larva,

and the walls. Nothing, nothing, nothing! For a fortnight and more

nests were searched and rejected, and heaped up in a corner. My study

was crammed with them. In vain I ripped up the cocoons; I found

nothing. It needed the sturdiest faith to make me persevere.



At last I saw, or seemed to see, something move on the Bee’s larva. Was

it an illusion? Was it a bit of down stirred by my breath? It was not

an illusion; it was not a bit of down; it was really and truly a grub!

But at first I thought the discovery unimportant, because I was so

greatly puzzled by the little creature’s appearance.



In a couple of days I was the owner of ten such worms and had placed

each of them in a glass tube, together with the Bee-grub on which it

wriggled. It was so tiny that the least fold of skin concealed it from

my sight. After watching it one day through the lens I sometimes failed

to find it again on the morrow. I would think it was lost: then it

would move, and become visible once more.



For some time the belief had been growing in me that the Anthrax had

two larval forms, a first and a second, the second being the form I

knew, the grub we have already seen at its meals. Was this new

discovery, I asked myself, the first form? Time showed me that it was.

For at last I saw my little worms transform themselves into the grub I

have already described, and make their first start at draining their

victims with kisses. A few moments of satisfaction like those I then

enjoyed make up for many a weary hour.



This tiny worm, the first form or “primary larva” of the Anthrax, is

very active. It tramps over the fat sides of its victim, walking all

round it. It covers the ground pretty quickly, buckling and unbuckling

by turns, very much after the manner of the Looper-caterpillar. Its two

ends are its chief points of support. When walking it swells out, and

then looks like a bit of knotted string. It has thirteen rings or

segments, including its tiny head, which bristles in front with short,

stiff hairs. There are four other pairs of bristles on the lower

surface, and with the help of these it walks.



For a fortnight the feeble grub remains in this condition, without

growing, and apparently without eating. Indeed, what could it eat? In

the cocoon there is nothing but the larva of the Mason-bee, and the

worm cannot eat this before it has the sucker or mouth that comes with

the second form. Nevertheless, as I said before, though it does not eat

it is far from idle. It explores its future dish, and runs all over the

neighborhood.



Now, there is a very good reason for this long fast. In the natural

state of the Anthrax-grub it is necessary. The egg is laid by the

mother on the surface of the nest, at a distance from the Bee’s larva,

which is protected by a thick rampart. It is the business of the

new-born grub to make its way to its provisions, not by violence, of

which it is incapable, but by patiently slipping through a maze of

cracks. It is a very difficult task, even for this slender worm, for

the Bee’s masonry is exceedingly compact. There are no chinks due to

bad building, no cracks due to the weather. I see but one weak point,

and that only in a few nests: it is the line where the dome joins the

surface of the stone. This weakness so seldom occurs that I believe the

Anthrax-grub is able to find an entrance at any spot on the dome of the

Bee’s nest.



The grub is extremely weak, and has nothing but invincible patience.

How long it takes to work its way through the masonry I cannot say. The

work is so laborious and the worker so feeble! In some cases I believe

it may be months before the slow journey is accomplished. So it is very

fortunate, you see, that this first form of the Anthrax, which exists

only in order to pierce the walls of the Bees’ nest, should be able to

live without food.



At last I saw my young worms shrink, and rid themselves of their outer

skin. They then appeared as the grub I knew and was so anxiously

expecting, the grub of the Anthrax, the cream-colored cylinder with the

little button of a head. Fastening its round sucker to the Bee-grub, it

began its meal. You know the rest.



Before taking leave of this tiny animal let us dwell for a moment on

its marvellous instinct. Picture it as having just left the egg, just

awakened to life under the fierce rays of the sun. The bare stone is

its cradle; there is no one to welcome it as it enters the world, a

mere thread of half-solid substance. Instantly it starts on its

struggle with the flint. Obstinately it sounds each pore of the stone;

it slips in, crawls on, retreats, begins again. What inspiration urges

it towards its food, what compass guides it? What does it know of those

depths, or of what lies in them? Nothing. What does the root of a plant

know of the earth’s fruitfulness? Again, nothing. Yet both the root and

the worm make for the nourishing spot, Why? I do not understand. I do

not even try to understand. The question is far above us.



We have now followed the complete history of the Anthrax. Its life is

divided into four periods, each of which has its special form and its

special work. The primary larva enters the Bees’ nest, which contains

provisions; the secondary larva eats those provisions; the pupa brings

the insect to light by boring through the enclosing wall; the perfect

insect strews its eggs. Then the story starts afresh.

















NOTES





[1] See Insect Adventures, retold for young people from the works of

Henri Fabre.



[2] English translation by Mr Stephen M’Kenna.



















*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FABRE'S BOOK OF INSECTS ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.