 GALLIPOLI





 [Illustration: Publisher's Mark]



 THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

 NEW YORK · BOSTON · CHICAGO · DALLAS

 ATLANTA · SAN FRANCISCO



 MACMILLAN & CO., LIMITED

 LONDON · BOMBAY · CALCUTTA

 MELBOURNE



 THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, LTD.

 TORONTO





 GALLIPOLI



 BY

 JOHN MASEFIELD



 Author of "The Everlasting Mercy," "The

 Story of a Round House," etc.



 _ILLUSTRATED_



 New York

 THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

 1916

 _All rights reserved_





 COPYRIGHT, 1916,

 BY JOHN MASEFIELD



 Set up and electrotyped. Published October, 1916.

 Reprinted November, twice, December, 1916.





 DEDICATED

 WITH DEEP RESPECT AND ADMIRATION TO

 _General Sir Ian Hamilton, G.C.B., D.S.O._

 AND

 _The Officers and Men under his Command_,

 March to October, 1915.









LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS



                                                                   FACING

                                                                     PAGE



 Map No. 1                                                              4



 Map No. 2                                                             38



 A view showing Morte Bay, De Tott's Battery,

   and the Asiatic Coast                                               46



 A remarkable view of V Beach                                          48



 The S.S. _River Clyde_                                                52



 Some of the barbed wire entanglements near Sedd-el-Bahr               56



 Exercising mules                                                      92



 Anzac from the Sea                                                   116



 View of Anzac, looking towards Suvla                                 134



 Map No. 3                                                            136



 A "long focus" view taken over the top of our trenches at Anzac      144



 Australians at work at Anzac two days before the

   evacuation took place                                              146



 A boatload of British troops leaving the S.S. _Nile_

   for one of the landing beaches                                     148



 Inside an Australian trench                                          162



 An Australian bringing in a wounded comrade to

   hospital                                                           224









 GALLIPOLI









I



Oliver said ... "I have seen the Saracens: the valley and the mountains

are covered with them; and the lowlands and all the plains; great are

the hosts of that strange people; we have here a very little company."



Roland answered ... "My heart is the bigger for that. Please God and His

holiest angels, France shall never lose her name through me."



 _The Song of Roland._





A little while ago, during a short visit to America, I was often

questioned about the Dardanelles Campaign. People asked me why that

attempt had been made, why it had been made in that particular manner,

why other courses had not been taken, why this had been done and that

either neglected or forgotten, and whether a little more persistence,

here or there, would not have given us the victory.



These questions were often followed by criticism of various kinds, some

of it plainly suggested by our enemies, some of it shrewd, and some the

honest opinion of men and women happily ignorant of modern war. I

answered questions and criticism as best I could, but in the next town

they were repeated to me, and in the town beyond reiterated, until I

felt the need of a leaflet printed for distribution, giving my views of

the matter.



Later, when there was leisure, I began to consider the Dardanelles

Campaign, not as a tragedy, nor as a mistake, but as a great human

effort, which came, more than once, very near to triumph, achieved the

impossible many times, and failed, in the end, as many great deeds of

arms have failed, from something which had nothing to do with arms nor

with the men who bore them. That the effort failed is not against it;

much that is most splendid in military history failed, many great things

and noble men have failed. To myself, this failure is the second grand

event of the war; the first was Belgium's answer to the German ultimatum.



 [Illustration: Map No. 1

 _Stanford's Geog'l Estab't London._]



The Peninsula of Gallipoli, or Thracian Chersonese, from its beginning

in the Gulf of Xeros to its extremity at Cape Helles, is a tongue of

hilly land about fifty-three miles long, between the Ægean Sea and the

Straits of the Dardanelles. At its northeastern, Gulf of Xeros or

European end it is four or five miles broad, then a little to the south

of the town of Bulair, it narrows to three miles, in a contraction or

neck which was fortified during the Crimean War by French and English

soldiers. This fortification is known as the Lines of Bulair. Beyond

these lines, to the southwest, the peninsula broadens in a westward

direction, and attains its maximum breadth, of about twelve miles, some

twenty-four miles from Bulair, between the two points of Cape Suvla, on

the sea, and Cape Uzun, within the Straits. Beyond this broad part is a

second contraction or neck, less than five miles across, and beyond

this, pointing roughly west-southwesterly, is the final tongue or finger

of the Peninsula, an isosceles triangle of land with a base of some

seven miles, and two sides of thirteen miles each, converging in the

blunt tip (perhaps a mile and a half across) between Cape Helles and

Cape Tekke. There is no railway within the peninsula, but bad roads,

possible for wheeled traffic, wind in the valleys, skirting the hills

and linking up the principal villages. Most of the travelling and

commerce of the peninsula is done by boat, along the Straits, between

the little port of Maidos, near the Narrows, and the town of Gallipoli

(the chief town) near the Sea of Marmora. From Gallipoli there is a fair

road to Bulair and beyond. Some twenty other small towns or hamlets are

scattered here and there in the well-watered valleys in the central

broad portion of the Peninsula. The inhabitants are mostly small

cultivators with olive and currant orchards, a few vineyards and patches

of beans and grains; but not a hundredth part of the land is under

cultivation.



The sea shore, like the Straits shore, is mainly steep-to, with abrupt

sandy cliffs rising from the sea to a height of from one hundred to

three hundred feet. At irregular and rare intervals these cliffs are

broken by the ravines or gullies down which the autumnal and winter

rains escape; at the sea mouth of these gullies are sometimes narrow

strips of stony or sandy beach.



Viewed from the sea, the Peninsula is singularly beautiful. It rises and

falls in gentle and stately hills between four hundred and eleven

hundred feet high, the highest being at about the centre. In its colour

(after the brief spring) in its gentle beauty, and the grace and

austerity of its line, it resembles those parts of Cornwall to the north

of Padstow from which one can see Brown Willie. Some Irish hills recall

it. I know no American landscape like it.



In the brief spring the open ground is covered with flowers, but there

is not much open ground; in the Cape Helles district it is mainly poor

land growing heather and thyme; further north there is abundant scrub,

low shrubs and brushwood, from two to four feet high, frequently very

thick. The trees are mostly stunted firs, and very numerous in the

south, where the fighting was, but more frequently north of Suvla. In

one or two of the villages there are fruit trees; on some of the hills

there are small clumps of pine. Viewed from the sea the Peninsula looks

waterless and sun-smitten; the few water-courses are deep ravines

showing no water. Outwardly, from a distance, it is a stately land of

beautiful graceful hills rolling in suave yet austere lines and covered

with a fleece of brushwood. In reality the suave and graceful hills are

exceedingly steep, much broken and roughly indented with gullies, clefts

and narrow irregular valleys. The soil is something between a sand and a

marl, loose and apt to blow about in dry weather when not bound down by

the roots of brushwood, but sticky when wet.



Those who look at the southwestern end of the Peninsula, between Cape

Suvla and Cape Helles, will see three heights greater than the rolling

wold or downland around them. Seven miles southeast from Cape Suvla is

the great and beautiful peaked hill of Sari Bair, 970 feet high, very

steep on its sea side and thickly fleeced with scrub. This hill commands

the landing place at Suvla. Seven miles south from Sari Bair is the long

dominating plateau of Kilid Bahr, which runs inland from the Straits, at

heights varying between five and seven hundred feet, to within two miles

of the sea. This plateau commands the Narrows of the Hellespont. Five

miles further to the southwest and less than six miles from Cape Helles

is the bare and lonely lump of Achi Baba, 590 feet high. This hill

commands the landing place at Cape Helles. These hills and the ground

commanded by them were the scenes of some of the noblest heroism which

ever went far to atone for the infamy of war. Here the efforts of our

men were made.





Those who wish to imagine the scenes must think of twenty miles of any

rough and steep sea coast known to them, picturing it as roadless,

waterless, much broken with gullies, covered with scrub, sandy, loose

and difficult to walk on, and without more than two miles of accessible

landing throughout its length. Let them picture this familiar twenty

miles as dominated at intervals by three hills bigger than the hills

about them, the north hill a peak, the centre a ridge or plateau, and

the south hill a lump. Then let them imagine the hills entrenched, the

landing mined, the beaches tangled with barbed wire, ranged by howitzers

and swept by machine guns, and themselves three thousand miles from

home, going out before dawn, with rifles, packs, and water bottles, to

pass the mines under shell fire, cut through the wire under machine gun

fire, clamber up the hills under the fire of all arms, by the glare of

shell-bursts in the withering and crashing tumult of modern war, and

then to dig themselves in in a waterless and burning hill while a more

numerous enemy charge them with the bayonet. And let them imagine

themselves enduring this night after night, day after day, without rest

or solace, nor respite from the peril of death, seeing their friends

killed, and their position imperilled, getting their food, their

munitions, even their drink, from the jaws of death, and their breath

from the taint of death, and their brief sleep upon the dust of death.

Let them imagine themselves driven mad by heat and toil and thirst by

day, shaken by frost at midnight, weakened by disease and broken by

pestilence, yet rising on the word with a shout and going forward to die

in exultation in a cause foredoomed and almost hopeless. Only then will

they begin, even dimly, to understand what our seizing and holding of

the landings meant.



All down the southeastern coast of this Peninsula or outlier from Europe

is a channel of sea, known, anciently, as the Hellespont, but in modern

times more generally as the Dardanelles, from old fortifications of that

name near the southwestern end of the Strait. This channel, two or three

miles across at its southwestern end, broadens rapidly to four or five,

then narrows to two, then, for a short reach, to one mile or less, after

which (with one more contraction) it maintains a steady breadth of two

or three miles till it opens into the great salt lake of the Sea of

Marmora, and thence by another narrow reach into the Black Sea, or

Euxine.



It is a deep water channel, with from 25 to 50 fathoms of water in it

throughout its length. The Gallipoli, or European, shore is steep-to,

with a couple of fathoms of water close inshore, save in one or two

beaches, where it shoals. On the Asian shore, where the ground is lower

and the coast more shelving, the water is shallower. A swift current of

from two to three knots an hour runs always down the channel from the

Sea of Marmora; and this with a southwesterly gale against it makes a

nasty sea.



This water of the Hellespont is the most important channel of water in

the world. It is the one entrance and exit to the Black Sea, the mouths

of the Danube, Dniester, Dnieper and Don and the great ports of

Constantinople, Odessa and Sebastopol. He who controls the channel

controls those ports, with their wealth and their power to affect great

conflicts. The most famous war of all times was fought not for any human

Helen but to control that channel. Our Dardanelles campaign was

undertaken to win through it a free passage for the ships of the Allied

Powers.



While the war was still young it became necessary to attempt this

passage for five reasons: 1. To break the link by which Turkey keeps her

hold as a European Power. 2. To divert a large part of the Turkish army

from operations against our Russian Allies in the Caucasus and

elsewhere. 3. To pass into Russia, at a time when her northern ports

were closed by ice, the rifles and munitions of war of which her armies

were in need. 4. To bring out of Southern Russia the great stores of

wheat lying there waiting shipment. 5. If possible, to prevent, by a

successful deed of arms in the Near East, any new alliance against us

among the Balkan peoples.



In its simplest form the problem was to force a passage through the

defended channel of the Dardanelles into the Sea of Marmora, to attack

the capital of Turkey in Europe, to win through the Bosphorus into the

Black Sea, securing each step in the advance against reconquest by the

Turks, so that ships might pass from the Ægean to the Russian ports in

the Black Sea, bringing to the Russians arms for their unequipped troops

and taking from them the corn of the harvests of Southern Russia. The

main problem was to force a passage through the defended channel of the

Hellespont.



This passage had been forced in the past by a British naval squadron. In

February, 1807, Sir John Duckworth sailed through with seven ships of

the line and some smaller vessels, silenced the forts at Sestos and

Abydos and destroyed some Turkish ships; and then, fearing that the

Turks, helped by French engineers, would so improve the fortifications

that he would never be able to get back, he returned. On his return, one

of his ships, the _Endymion_ frigate, 40 guns, received in her hull two

stone shot each 26 inches in diameter.



The permanent fortifications guarding the Channel were added to and

improved during the nineteenth century. At the outbreak of the war with

Italy, four years ago, they were equipped (perhaps by German officers)

with modern weapons. An attempt made by Italian torpedo boats to rush

the Straits by night was discovered by searchlights and checked by a

heavy fire from quick-firing and other guns. All the torpedo boats

engaged in the operations were hit and compelled to return.



When Turkey entered the war against the Allied Powers, her officers had

every reason to expect that the British or French fleets would attempt

to force the Channel. The military prize, Constantinople and the control

of the Black Sea (whether for peace or for offence), was too great a

temptation to be resisted. Helped by their German allies they prepared

for this attack with skill, knowledge and imagination. The Turks had no

effective battle fleet, as in the sixteenth century, when they sought

their enemies upon their own coasts; and had they had one they could not

have passed the British fleet blockading the Dardanelles; but they

prepared the channel and its shores so that no enemy ship might pass to

seek them.



More than the two great wars, in South Africa and Manchuria, the present

war has shown:



 (a) that in modern war, defence is easier and less costly in men and

     munitions, however much less decisive, than attack;



 (b) that the ancient type of permanent fortress, built of steel,

     concrete and heavy masonry is much less easy to defend against the

     fire of heavy modern howitzers and high explosives than temporary

     field works, dug into the earth and protected by earth and sandbags;



 (c) that the fire of modern long range guns is wasteful and ineffective

     unless the object fired at can be accurately ranged, and the fire

     controlled by officers who can watch the bursting of the shells on

     or near the target;



 (d) that in restricted waters the fixed or floating mine, filled with

     high explosive, is a sure defence against enemy ships.



Beginning with proposition (a), the Turks argued that (unlike most

defences) a defence of the passage of the Dardanelles against naval

attack might well be decisive (i.e., that it might well cause the attack

to be abandoned or even destroy the attacking ships) since ships engaged

in the attack would be under every disadvantage, since:



(b) Their guns, however heavy, would not be overwhelmingly successful

against temporary field works and gun emplacements.



(c) Their officers, unable in the first place to locate the guns hidden

on the shore, would be unable to observe the effect of their fire, and

therefore unable to direct it, and this disadvantage would become

greater as the ships advanced within the channel and became shut in by

the banks.



(d) They would be unable to enter the channel until the waters had been

dragged for mines by mine sweepers. The batteries of field guns hidden

on the coast would perhaps be sufficient to stop the progress of the

mine sweepers. If not, floating mines, alongshore torpedo tubes, and the

accurately ranged and directed fire of heavy howitzers would perhaps

sink the ships of war as they advanced.



(e) A ship, if damaged, would be five hundred miles from any friendly

dock and seven hundred miles from any friendly arsenal. Replenishments

of ammunition, fuel, food and water would have to be brought to the

attacking fleet across these distances of sea, past many islands and

through one or two channels well suited to be the lurking grounds for

enemy submarines.



On the other hand, there was the possibility that the heavy naval guns

would make the field works untenable, that observers in aeroplanes and

seaplanes would locate, range and observe the fire upon the hidden

batteries, that thus the mine sweepers would be able to clear a passage

up the Straits without undue interruption, and complete the task

demanded of them without military assistance.



Before operations could be begun by the Allied fleets it was necessary

to secure some harbour, as close as possible to the Straits, to serve as

what is called an advanced or subsidiary base, where large stores of

necessaries, such as fuel and munitions, could be accumulated for future

use by the ships engaged.



The port of Mudros, in Lemnos, was selected as this subsidiary base.

This great natural harbour, measuring some two by three miles across,

provides good holding ground in from five to seven fathoms of water for

half the ships in the world. Two islands in the fairway divide the

entrance into three passages, and make it more easy for the naval

officers to defend the approaches. It is a safe harbour for ocean-going

ships in all weathers, but with northerly or southerly gales, such as

spring up very rapidly there in the changeable seasons of the year and

blow with great violence for some hours at a time, the port is much

wind-swept and the sea makes it dangerous for boats to lie alongside

ships. Mudros itself, the town from which the port is named, is a small

collection of wretched houses inhabited by Levantines, who live by

fishery, petty commerce, and a few olive gardens and vineyards. It has a

cathedral or largish church, and a small wooden pier, without

appliances, for the use of the native boatmen. The town lies to the east

of the harbour, on some rising ground or sand which stands up a little

higher than the surrounding country. Behind it, rather more than a mile

away, are barren hills of some 800 or 900 feet. The port is ringed in

with these hills; it looks like a great extinct crater flooded by the

sea. Over the hills in fair weather the peaks of Samothrace can be seen.

When the spring flowers have withered the island is of the colour of a

lion's skin. Its only beauty then is that of changing light.



Mudros in itself offered nothing to the Allied fleets but a safe

anchorage. It could not even supply the ships with fresh water, let

alone meat, bread and vegetables. The island produces little for its few

inhabitants; its wealth of a few goats, fish, olives and currants could

be bought up in a week by the crew of one battleship. Everything

necessary for the operations had therefore to be brought by sea and

stored in Mudros till wanted. When this is grasped, the difficulties of

the undertaking will be understood. There was no dock, wharf nor crane

in Mudros, nor any place in the harbour where a dock or wharf could be

built without an immense labour of dredging. Ships could not be repaired

nor dry-docked there, nor could they discharge and receive heavy stores

save by their own winches and derricks. Throughout the operations, ships

had to serve as wharves, and ships' derricks as cranes, and goods were

shipped, re-shipped and trans-shipped by that incessant manual labour

which is the larger half of war.



On the 18th February and following days, the Allied Fleets attacked the

forts at the entrance to the Straits and soon silenced them. These were

old-fashioned stone structures of great strength, they were knocked

about and made untenable by the fire from the ships, but not destroyed.

After this first easy success came delay, for the real obstacles lay

within the Straits, between Cape Helles and the Narrows. Here, at

intervals, very skilfully laid, commanded by many guns, ranged to the

inch, were eight big mine fields, stretching almost across the navigable

channel in different directions. No ships could pass this part of the

Straits until the mines had been groped for and removed. In thick and

violent weather, under heavy fire, and troubled by the strong current,

the mine-sweepers began to remove them, helped by the guns of the fleet.

But the fleet's fire could not destroy the mobile field guns and

howitzers hidden in the gullies and nullahs (invisible from the ships)

on the Asian shore and to the east of Achi Baba. The Boers, and later,

the Japanese, had shown how difficult it is to locate well-concealed

guns. Even when sea- and aero-planes had seen and signalled the

whereabouts of the hidden guns, the ships could only fire at the flashes

and at most hit some of the gunners; if their fire became too accurate

the gunners would retire to their shelters, or withdraw their guns to

new hidden emplacements. These hidden guns, firing continually upon the

mine-sweepers, made the clearing of the mine fields towards the Narrows

a slow and bloody task.



On the 18th March, the ships developed a fierce fire upon the shore

defences, and in the midst of the engagement the Turks floated some

large mines upon the attacking ships and by these means sank three

battleships, one French, two English, the French ship with all her crew.



Heavy and unsettled weather which made mine-sweeping impossible broke

off serious operations for some days. During these days it was decided,

though with grave misgivings among the counsellors, that an army should

be landed on the Peninsula to second the next naval attack.



It was now a month since the operations had begun, and the original

decision, to leave the issue solely to the ships, had delayed the

concentration of the troops needed for the task. The army, under the

supreme command of General Sir Ian Hamilton, was assembling, but not yet

concentrated nor on the scene. Some of it was in Egypt, some in

transports at sea. When it was decided to use the army in the venture,

much necessary work had still to be done. The Turks had now been given

so much time to defend the landing places that to get our troops ashore

at all called for the most elaborate preparation and the working out of

careful schemes with the naval officers. The Germans boasted that our

troops would never be able to land; possibly at first thought, many

soldiers would have agreed with them, but English soldiers and sailors

are not Germans; they are, as Carlyle says, "far other"; our Admirals

and General felt that with courage and a brave face our troops could

land. It was true that the well-armed Turks were amply ready and could

easily concentrate against any army which we could land and supply, a

far larger force, more easily supplied and supported. But in the narrow

Peninsula they could not move their larger forces so as to out-flank us.

Our flanks could be protected always by the fleet. And besides, in war,

fortune plays a large part, and skill, courage and resolution, and that

fine blending of all three in the uncommon sense called genius, have

often triumphed even where common sense has failed. It was necessary

that we should divert large armies of Turks from our Russian Allies in

the Caucasus; it was desirable to strike the imaginations of the Balkan

States by some daring feat of arms close to them; it was vital to our

enterprise in Mesopotamia and to the safety of Egypt that we should

alarm the Turks for their capital and make them withdraw their armies

from their frontiers. This operation, striking at the heart of the

Turkish Empire, was the readiest way to do all these things.



The army designated for this honourable and dangerous task consisted of

the following:



A division of French soldiers, the Corps Expeditionnaire de l'Orient,

under M. le General d'Amade. This division was made up of French

Territorial soldiers and Senegalese.



The 29th Division of British regular troops.



The Royal Naval Division.



The Australian and New Zealand Army Corps.



The French Division and the 29th Division of British Regular soldiers

were men who had been fully trained in time of peace, but the Australian

and New Zealand Army Corps and the Royal Naval Division, who together

made up more than half the army, were almost all men who had enlisted

since the declaration of war, and had had not more than six months'

active training. They were, however, the finest body of young men ever

brought together in modern times. For physical beauty and nobility of

bearing they surpassed any men I have ever seen; they walked and looked

like the kings in old poems, and reminded me of the line in Shakespeare:



  "Baited like eagles having lately bathed."



As their officers put it, "they were in the pink of condition and didn't

care a damn for anybody." Most of these new and irregular formations

were going into action for the first time, to receive their baptism of

fire in "a feat of arms only possible to the flower of a very fine army."





Having decided to use the army, the question how to use it was left to

the Commanding General, whose task was to help the British fleet through

the Narrows. Those who have criticised the operations to me, even those

who know, or pretended to know the country and military matters (but who

were, for the most part, the gulls or agents of German propaganda)

raised, nearly always, one or both of the following alternatives to the

attack used by Sir Ian Hamilton. They have asked:



 (1) Why did he not attack at or to the north of Bulair in the Gulf of

     Xeros, or



 (2) Why did he not attack along the Asiatic coast, instead of where he

     did, at Cape Helles and Anzac?



Those who have asked these questions have always insisted to me that had

he chosen either alternative his efforts must have been successful. It

may be well to set down here the final and sufficient reasons against

either folly.



Firstly, then, the reasons against landing the army at or to the north

of Bulair in the Gulf of Xeros.



1. The task demanded of the army was, to second the naval attack in the

Straits, i.e., by seizing and occupying, if possible, the high ground in

the Peninsula from which the Turkish guns molested the mine-sweepers. As

this high ground commanded the Asiatic shore, its occupation by the

British troops would have made possible the passage of the Straits. This

and this alone was the task demanded of the army, no adventure upon

Constantinople was designed or possible with the numbers of men

available. How the army could have seconded the naval attack by landing

three or four days' march from the Narrows within easy reach of the

large Turkish armies in European Turkey is not clear.



Nevertheless, our task was to land the army and all landing places had

to be examined. Pass now to:



(a) Bulair was carefully reconnoitred and found to be a natural

stronghold, so fortified with earthworks that there was no chance of

taking it. Ten thousand Turks had been digging there for a month, and

had made it impregnable. There are only two landing places near Bulair,

one (a very bad one) in a swamp or salt-marsh to the east, the other in

a kind of death-trap ravine to the west, both dominated by high ground

in front, and one (the eastward) commanded also from the rear. Had the

army, or any large part of it, landed at either beach, it would have

been decimated in the act and then held up by the fortress.



(b) Had the army landed to the north of Bulair on the coast of European

Turkey it would have been in grave danger of destruction. Large Turkish

armies could have marched upon its left and front from Adrianople and

Rodosto, while, as it advanced, the large army in Gallipoli, reinforced

from Asia across the Straits, could have marched from Bulair and fallen

upon its right flank and rear.



(c) But even had it beaten these armies, some four times its own

strength, it would none the less have perished, through failure of

supplies, since no European army could hope to live upon a Turkish

province in the spring, and European supplies could have been brought to

it only with the utmost difficulty and danger. There is no port upon

that part of the Turkish coast; no shelter from the violent southerly

gales, and no depth of water near the shore. In consequence, no

transports of any size could approach within some miles of the coast to

land either troops or stores. Even had there been depth of water for

them, transports could not have discharged upon the coast because of the

danger from submarines. They would have been compelled to discharge in

the safe harbour of the subsidiary base at Mudros in Lemnos, and (as

happened with the fighting where it was) their freight, whether men or

stores, re-shipped into small ships of too light draught to be in danger

from submarines, and by them conveyed to the landing places. But this

system, which never quite failed at Anzac and Cape Helles, would have

failed on the Xeros coast. Anzac is some forty miles from Mudros, the

Xeros coast is eighty, or twice the distance. Had the army landed at

Xeros, it would have been upon an unproductive enemy territory in an

unsettled season of the year, from eighty to twenty hours' steam from

their own safe subsidiary base. A stormy week might have cut them off at

any time from all possibility of obtaining a man, a biscuit, a cartridge

or even a drink of water, and this upon ground where they could with

little trouble be outnumbered by armies four times their strength with

sound communications.



Secondly, for the reasons against attacking along the Asiatic coast:



(a) The coast is commanded from the Gallipoli coast and therefore less

important to those trying to second a naval attack upon the Narrows.



(b) An army advancing from Kum Kale along the Asiatic shore would be

forced to draw its supplies from overseas. As it advanced, its

communications could be cut with great ease at any point by the hordes

of armed Turks in Asia Minor.



(c) The Turkish armies in Asia Minor would have attacked it in the right

and rear, those from Bulair and Rodosto would have ferried over and

attacked it in front, the guns in Gallipoli would have shelled its left,

and the task made impracticable.



Some of those who raised these alternatives raised a third; when the

first two had been disposed of, they asked, "Even if the army could not

have landed at Bulair or on the Asian coast, why did it land where it

did land, on those suicidal beaches?" The answer to this criticism is as

follows: It landed on those beaches because there were no others on the

Peninsula, because the only landing places at which troops could be got

ashore with any prospect of success however slight were just those three

or four small beaches near Cape Helles, at the southwest end of the

Peninsula, and the one rather longer beach to the north of Gaba or Kaba

Tepe. All these beaches were seen to be strongly defended, with barbed

wire entanglements on the shore and under the water, with sea and land

mines, with strongly entrenched riflemen, many machine guns, and an

ample artillery. In addition, the beaches close to Cape Helles were

within range of big guns mounted near Troy on the Asian shore, and the

beach near Gaba Tepe was ranged by the guns in the olive groves to the

south and on the hills to the north of it. A strong Turkish army held

the Peninsula, and very powerful reserves were at Bulair, all well

supplied (chiefly by boat from the Asian shore) with food and munitions.

German officers had organised the defence of the Peninsula with great

professional skill. They had made it a fortress of great strength,

differing from all other fortresses in this, that besides being almost

impregnable it was almost unapproachable. But our army had its task to

do, there was no other means of doing it, and our men had to do what

they could. Any one trying to land, to besiege that fortress, had to do

so by boat or lighter under every gun in the Turkish army. The Turks and

the Germans knew, better than we, what few and narrow landing places

were possible to our men, they had more than two months of time in which

to make those landing places fatal to any enemy within a mile of them,

yet our men came from three thousand miles away, passed that mile of

massacre, landed and held on with all their guns, stores, animals and

appliances, in spite of the Turk and his ally, who outnumbered them at

every point.



No army in history has made a more heroic attack; no army in history has

been set such a task. No other body of men in any modern war has been

called upon to land over mined and wired waters under the cross fire of

machine guns. The Japanese at Chinampo and Chemulpho were not opposed,

the Russians at Pitezwo were not prepared, the Spaniards at Daiquiri

made no fight. Our men achieved a feat without parallel in war and no

other troops in the world (not even Japanese or Gurkhas or Ghazis in the

hope of heaven) would have made good those beaches on the 25th of April.









II



Then said Roland: "Oliver, companion, brother ... we shall have a strong

and tough battle, such as man never saw fought. But I shall strike with

my sword, and you, comrade, will strike with yours; we have borne our

swords in so many lands, we have ended so many battles with them, that

no evil song shall be sung of them." ... At these words the Franks went

forward gladly.



 _The Song of Roland._





Let the reader now try to imagine the nature of the landing. In order to

puzzle the Turkish commander, to make him hesitate and divide his

forces, it was necessary to land or pretend to land, in some force,

simultaneously at various places. A feint of landing was to be made near

Bulair, the French Corps Expeditionnaire was to land at Kum Kale, to

attack and silence the Asiatic fortifications and batteries, the

Australian and New Zealand Army Corps was to land at or near Gaba Tepe,

while men of the 29th and Royal Naval Divisions landed at or near Cape

Helles, some towards Krithia on the north, others nearer Sedd-el-Bahr on

the southwest and south. The main attacks were to be those near Gaba

Tepe and Cape Helles.



 [Illustration: Map No. 2

 _Stanford's Geog'l Estab't London._]



At Cape Helles three principal landings were to be made at the following

places:



1. At Beach V, a small semi-circular sandy bay, 300 yards across, just

west of the ruins of Sedd-el-Bahr castle. The ground rises steeply round

the half circle of the bay exactly as the seats rise in an amphitheatre.

Modern defence could not ask for a more perfect site.



2. At Beach W (to the west of V), where a small sandy bay under Cape

Tekke offered a landing upon a strip of sand about the size of Beach V.

The slope upward from this beach is more gentle than at V, through a

succession of sand dunes, above which the ground was strongly

entrenched. The cliffs north and south are precipitous, and make the

beach a kind of gully or ravine. The Turks had placed machine guns in

holes in the cliff, had wired and mined both beach and bay, and thrown

up strong redoubts to flank them. Beach W was a death trap.



3. At Beach X (north of W, on the other or northern side of Cape Tekke),

a narrow strip of sand, 200 yards long, at the foot of a low cliff.

This, though too small to serve for the quick passage ashore of many men

at a time, was a slightly easier landing place than the other two, owing

to the lie of the ground.



Besides these main landings, two minor landings were to be made as

follows:



4. At Beach S, a small beach, within the Straits, beyond Sedd-el-Bahr.



5. At Beach Y (on the Ægean, to the west of Krithia), a strip of sand

below a precipitous cliff, gashed with steep, crumbling, and

scrub-covered gullies.



These two minor landings were to protect the flanks of the main landing

parties, "to disseminate the forces of the enemy and to interrupt the

arrival of his reinforcements." They were to take place at dawn (at

about 5 A.M. or half an hour before the main attacks), without any

preliminary bombardment from the fleet upon the landing places.



Near Gaba Tepe only one landing was to be made, upon a small beach, 200

yards across, a mile to the north of Gaba Tepe promontory. The ground

beyond this beach is abrupt sandy cliff, covered with scrub, flanked by

Gaba Tepe, and commanded by the land to shoreward.



For some days before the landing, the Army lay at Mudros, in Lemnos,

aboard its transports, or engaged in tactical exercises ashore and in

the harbour. Much bitter and ignorant criticism has been passed upon

this delay, which was, unfortunately, very necessary. The month of

April, 1915, in the Ægean, was a month of unusually unsettled weather;

it was quite impossible to attempt the landing without calm water and

the likelihood of fine weather for some days. In rough weather it would

have been impossible to land laden soldiers with their stores through

the surf of open beaches, under heavy fire, and those who maintain, that

"other soldiers" (i.e. themselves) would have made the attempt, can have

no knowledge of what wading ashore from a boat, in bad weather, in the

Ægean or any other sea, even without a pack and with no enemy ahead, is

like. But in unsettled weather the Gallipoli coast is not only difficult

but exceedingly dangerous for small vessels. The currents are fierce,

and a short and ugly sea gets up quickly and makes towing hazardous. Had

the attempt been made in foul weather a great many men would have been

drowned, some few would have reached the shore, and then the ships would

have been forced off the coast. The few men left on the shore would have

had to fight there with neither supplies nor supports till the enemy

overwhelmed them.



Another reason for delay was the need for the most minute preparation.

Many armies have been landed from boats from the time of Pharaoh's

invasion of Punt until the present, but no men, not even Cæsar's army of

invasion in Britain, have had to land in an enemy's country with such a

prospect of difficulty before them. They were going to land on a

foodless cliff, five hundred miles from a store, in a place and at a

season in which the sea's rising might cut them from supply. They had to

take with them all things, munitions, guns, entrenching tools, sandbags,

provisions, clothing, medical stores, hospital equipment, mules, horses,

fodder, even water to drink, for the land produced not even that. These

military supplies had to be arranged in boats and lighters in such a way

that they might be thrust ashore with many thousands of men in all haste

but without confusion. All this world of preparation, which made each

unit landed a self-supporting army, took time and labour, how much can

only be judged by those who have done similar work.



On Friday, the 23rd of April, the weather cleared so that the work could

be begun. In fine weather in Mudros a haze of beauty comes upon the

hills and water till their loveliness is unearthly it is so rare. Then

the bay is like a blue jewel, and the hills lose their savagery, and

glow, and are gentle, and the sun comes up from Troy, and the peaks of

Samothrace change colour, and all the marvellous ships in the harbour

are transfigured. The land of Lemnos was beautiful with flowers at that

season, in the brief Ægean spring, and to seawards always, in the bay,

were the ships, more ships, perhaps, than any port of modern times has

known; they seemed like half the ships of the world. In this crowd of

shipping, strange beautiful Greek vessels passed, under rigs of old

time, with sheep and goats and fish, for sale, and the tugs of the

Thames and Mersey met again the ships they had towed of old, bearing a

new freight, of human courage. The transports (all painted black) lay in

tiers, well within the harbour, the men of war nearer Mudros and the

entrance. Now in all that city of ships, so busy with passing

picket-boats, and noisy with the labour of men, the getting of the

anchors began. Ship after ship, crammed with soldiers, moved slowly out

of harbour, in the lovely day, and felt again the heave of the sea. No

such gathering of fine ships has ever been seen upon this earth, and the

beauty and the exaltation of the youth upon them made them like sacred

things as they moved away. All the thousands of men aboard them,

gathered on deck to see, till each rail was thronged. These men had come

from all parts of the British world, from Africa, Australia, Canada,

India, the Mother Country, New Zealand and remote islands in the sea.

They had said good-bye to home that they might offer their lives in the

cause we stand for. In a few hours at most, as they well knew, perhaps a

tenth of them would have looked their last on the sun, and be a part of

foreign earth or dumb things that the tides push. Many of them would

have disappeared forever from the knowledge of man, blotted from the

book of life none would know how, by a fall or chance shot in the

darkness, in the blast of a shell, or alone, like a hurt beast, in some

scrub or gully, far from comrades and the English speech and the English

singing. And perhaps a third of them would be mangled, blinded or

broken, lamed, made imbecile or disfigured, with the colour and the

taste of life taken from them, so that they would never more move with

comrades nor exult in the sun. And those not taken thus would be under

the ground, sweating in the trench, carrying sandbags up the sap,

dodging death and danger, without rest or food or drink, in the blazing

sun or the frost of the Gallipoli night, till death seemed relaxation

and a wound a luxury. But as they moved out these things were but the

end they asked, the reward they had come for, the unseen cross upon the

breast. All that they felt was a gladness of exultation that their young

courage was to be used. They went like kings in a pageant to the

imminent death.



As they passed from moorings to the man-of-war anchorage on their way to

the sea, their feeling that they had done with life and were going out

to something new, welled up in those battalions; they cheered and

cheered till the harbour rang with cheering. As each ship crammed with

soldiers drew near the battleships, the men swung their caps and cheered

again, and the sailors answered, and the noise of cheering swelled, and

the men in the ships not yet moving joined in, and the men ashore, till

all the life in the harbour was giving thanks that it could go to death

rejoicing. All was beautiful in that gladness of men about to die, but

the most moving thing was the greatness of their generous hearts. As

they passed the French ships, the memory of old quarrels healed, and the

sense of what sacred France has done and endured, in this great war, and

the pride of having such men as the French for comrades, rose up in

their warm souls, and they cheered the French ships more, even, than

their own.



They left the harbour very, very slowly; this tumult of cheering lasted

a long time; no one who heard it will ever forget it, or think of it

unshaken. It broke the hearts of all there with pity and pride: it went

beyond the guard of the English heart. Presently all were out, and the

fleet stood across for Tenedos, and the sun went down with marvellous

colour, lighting island after island and the Asian peaks, and those left

behind in Mudros trimmed their lamps knowing that they had been for a

little brought near to the heart of things.





The next day, the 24th April, the troops of the landing parties went on

board the warships and mine-sweepers which were to take them ashore. At

midnight the fleet got under way from Tenedos and stood out for the

Peninsula. Dawn was to be at five, the landings on the flanks were to

take place then, the others at half-past five, after the fleet had

bombarded the beaches. Very few of the soldiers of the landing parties

slept that night; the excitement of the morrow kept them awake, as

happened to Nelson's sailors before Trafalgar. It was a very still fine

night, slightly hazy, with a sea so still that the ships had no trouble

with their long tows of boats and launches. As it began to grow light

the men went down into the boats, and the two flanking parties started

for the outer beaches S and Y. The guns of the fleet now opened a heavy

fire upon the Turkish positions and the big guns on the Asian shore sent

over a few shell in answer; but the Turks near the landing places

reserved their fire. During the intense bombardment by the fleet, when

the ships were trembling like animals with the blasts of the explosions,

the picket-boats towing the lighters went ahead and the tow-loads of

crowded men started for the main landings on beaches V, W and X.



 [Illustration: A view showing Morto Bay, De Lott's Battery and the

 Asiatic Coast]



It was now light, and the haze on Sedd-el-Bahr was clearing away so that

those in charge of the boats could see what they were doing. Had they

attempted an attack in the dark on those unsurveyed beaches among the

fierce and dangerous tide rips the loss of life would have been very

great. As it was, the exceeding fierceness of the currents added much to

the difficulty and danger of the task. We will take the landings in

succession.





_The Landing at V Beach, near Sedd-el-Bahr._



The men told off for this landing were: The Dublin Fusiliers, the

Munster Fusiliers, half a battalion of the Hampshire Regiment, and the

West Riding Field Company.



Three companies of the Dublin Fusiliers were to land from towed

lighters, the rest of the party from a tramp steamer, the collier _River

Clyde_. This ship, a conspicuous sea mark at Cape Helles throughout the

rest of the campaign, had been altered to carry and land troops. Great

gangways or entry ports had been cut in her sides on the level of her

between decks, and platforms had been built out upon her sides below

these, so that men might run from her in a hurry. The plan was to beach

her as near the shore as possible, and then drag or sweep the lighters,

which she towed, into position between her and the shore, so as to make

a kind of boat bridge from her to the beach. When the lighters were so

moored as to make this bridge, the entry ports were to be opened, the

waiting troops were to rush out on to the external platforms, run from

them on to the lighters and so to the shore. The ship's upper deck and

bridge were protected with boiler plate and sandbags, and a casement for

machine guns was built upon her fo'c'sle, so that she might reply to the

enemy's fire.



 [Illustration: A remarkable view of V Beach, taken from S.S. _River

 Clyde_]



Five picket-boats, each towing five boats or launches full of men,

steamed alongside the _River Clyde_ and went ahead when she grounded.

She took the ground rather to the right of the little beach, some 400

yards from the ruins of Sedd-el-Bahr castle, before the Turks had opened

fire, but almost as she grounded, when the picket-boats with their tows

were ahead of her, only twenty or thirty yards from the beach, every

rifle and machine gun in the castle, the town above it, and in the

curved low strongly trenched hill along the bay, began a murderous fire

upon ship and boats. There was no question of their missing. They had

their target on the front and both flanks at ranges between 100 and 300

yards in clear daylight, thirty boats bunched together and crammed with

men and a good big ship. The first outbreak of fire made the bay as

white as a rapid, for the Turks fired not less than ten thousand shots a

minute for the first few minutes of that attack. Those not killed in the

boats at the first discharge jumped overboard to wade or swim ashore,

many were killed in the water, many, who were wounded, were swept away

and drowned, others, trying to swim in the fierce current, were drowned

by the weight of their equipment; but some reached the shore, and these

instantly doubled out to cut the wire entanglements, and were killed, or

dashed for the cover of a bank of sand or raised beach which runs along

the curve of the bay. Those very few who reached this cover were out of

immediate danger, but they were only a handful. The boats were destroyed

where they grounded.



Meanwhile, the men of the _River Clyde_ tried to make their bridge of

boats, by sweeping the lighters into position and mooring them between

the ship and the shore. They were killed as they worked, but others took

their places, the bridge was made, and some of the Munsters dashed along

it from the ship and fell in heaps as they ran. As a second company

followed, the moorings of the lighters broke or were shot, the men

leaped into the water and were drowned or killed, or reached the beach

and were killed, or fell wounded there, and lay under fire getting wound

after wound till they died; very, very few reached the sandbank. More

brave men jumped aboard the lighters to remake the bridge. They were

swept away or shot to pieces; the average life on those boats was some

three minutes long, but they remade the bridge, and the third company of

the Munsters doubled down to death along it under a storm of shrapnel

which scarcely a man survived. The big guns in Asia were now shelling

the _River Clyde_, and the hell of rapid fire never paused. More men

tried to land, headed by Brigadier General Napier, who was instantly

killed, with nearly all his followers. Then for long hours the remainder

stayed on board, down below in the grounded steamer, while the shots

beat on her plates with a rattling clang which never stopped. Her twelve

machine guns fired back, killing any Turk who showed, but nothing could

be done to support the few survivors of the landing, who now lay under

cover of the sandbank on the other side of the beach. It was almost

certain death to try to leave the ship, but all through the day men

leaped from her (with leave or without it) to bring water or succour to

the wounded on the boats or beach. A hundred brave men gave their lives

thus: every man there earned the Cross that day: a boy earned it by one

of the bravest deeds of the war, leaping into the sea with a rope in his

teeth to try to secure a drifting lighter.



 [Illustration: The S.S. _River Clyde_, which, loaded with troops, was

 run ashore on the beach, Sedd-el-Bahr. She is known familiarly as "The

 Wooden Horse," in allusion to the famous and somewhat similar expedient

 of the Greeks at Troy.]



The day passed thus, but at nightfall the Turks' fire paused, and the

men came ashore from the _River Clyde_, almost unharmed. They joined the

survivors on the beach and at once attacked the old fort and the village

above it. These works were strongly held by the enemy. All had been

ruined by the fire from the fleet, but in the rubble and ruin of old

masonry there were thousands of hidden riflemen backed by machine guns.

Again and again they beat off our attacks, for there was a bright moon

and they knew the ground, and our men had to attack uphill over wire and

broken earth and heaped stones in all the wreck and confusion and

strangeness of war at night in a new place. Some of the Dublins and

Munsters went astray in the ruins, and were wounded far from their

fellows and so lost. The Turks became more daring after dark; while the

light lasted they were checked by the _River Clyde's_ machine guns, but

at midnight they gathered unobserved and charged. They came right down

onto the beach, and in the darkness and moonlight much terrible and

confused fighting followed. Many were bayoneted, many shot, there was

wild firing and crying, and then the Turk attack melted away, and their

machine guns began again. When day dawned, the survivors of the landing

party were crouched under the shelter of the sandbank; they had had no

rest; most of them had been fighting all night, all had landed across

the corpses of their friends. No retreat was possible, nor was it

dreamed of, but to stay there was hopeless. Lieutenant Colonel

Doughty-Wylie gathered them together for an attack: the fleet opened a

terrific fire upon the ruins of the fort and village, and the landing

party went forward again, fighting from bush to bush and from stone to

stone, till the ruins were in their hands. Shells still fell among them,

single Turks, lurking under cover, sniped them and shot them, but the

landing had been made good, and V beach was secured to us.



This was the worst and the bloodiest of all the landings.





_The Landing at W Beach, under Cape Tekke._



The men told off for this landing were the 1st Battalion Lancashire

Fusiliers, supported (later) by the Worcester Regiment.



The men were landed at six in the morning from ships' boats run ashore

by picket-boats. On landing, they rushed the wire entanglements, broke

through them, with heavy loss, and won to the dead ground under the

cliffs. The ships drew nearer to the beach and opened heavy fire upon

the Turks, and the landing party stormed the cliffs and won the trenches.



The Worcester Regiment having landed, attempts were made to break a way

to the right, so as to join hands with the men on V Beach. All the land

between the two beaches was heavily wired and so broken that it gave

much cover to the enemy. Many brave Worcesters went out to cut the wires

and were killed; the fire was intense, there was no getting further. The

trenches already won were secured and improved, the few available

reserves were hurried up, and by dark, when the Turks attacked, again

and again, in great force, our men were able to beat them off, and hold

on to what they had won.





_The Landing at X Beach (Sometimes called Implacable Landing), towards

Krithia._



The men told off for this landing were the 1st Royal Fusiliers, with a

working party of the Anson Battalion, R.N.D.



These men were towed ashore from H.M.S. _Implacable_ about an hour after

dawn. The ship stood close in to the beach and opened rapid fire on the

enemy trenches: under cover of this fire the men got ashore fairly

easily. On moving inland they were attacked by a great force of Turks

and checked; but they made good the ground won, and opened up

communications with the Lancashires who had landed at W Beach. This

landing was the least bloody of all.



 [Illustration: Some of the barbed wire entanglements near Sedd-el-Bahr]



Of the two flank landings, that on the right, within the Straits, to the

right of Sedd-el-Bahr, got ashore without great loss and held on; that

on the left, to the left of X Beach, got ashore, fought a desperate and

bloody battle against five times its strength, and finally had to

re-embark. The men got ashore upon a cliff so steep that the Turks had

not troubled to defend it, but on landing they were unable to link up

with the men on X Beach as had been planned. They were attacked in great

force by an ever-growing Turkish army, fought all day and all through

the night in such trenches as they had been able to dig under fire, and

at last in the morning of the next day went down the cliffs and

re-embarked, most nobly covered to the end by a party from the King's

Own Scottish Borderers and the Plymouth Battalion.



During the forenoon of the 25th, a regiment of the French Corps landed

at Kum Kale, under cover of the guns of the French warships, and engaged

the enemy throughout the day and night. Their progress was held up by a

strongly entrenched force during the afternoon, and after sharp fighting

all through the night they re-embarked in the forenoon of the 26th with

some 400 Turkish prisoners. This landing of the French diverted from us

on the 25th the fire of the howitzers emplaced on the Asiatic shore. Had

these been free to fire upon us, the landings near Sedd-el-Bahr would

have been made even more hazardous than they were.



At Bulair one man, Lieutenant Freyberg, swam ashore from a Destroyer,

towing a little raft of flares. Near the shore he lit two of these

flares, then, wading onto the land, he lit others at intervals along the

coast, then he wandered inland, naked, on a personal reconnaissance, and

soon found a large Turkish army strongly entrenched. Modesty forbade

further intrusion. He went back to the beach and swam off to his

Destroyer, could not find her in the dark, and swam for several miles,

was exhausted and cramped, and was at last picked up, nearly dead. This

magnificent act of courage and endurance, done by one unarmed man, kept

a large Turkish army at Bulair during the critical hours of the landing.

"The Constantinople papers were filled with accounts of the repulse of

the great attack at Bulair." The flares deceived the Turks even more

completely than had been hoped.



While these operations were securing our hold upon the extreme end of

the Peninsula, the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps were making

good their landing on the Ægean coast, to the north of Gaba Tepe. They

sailed from Mudros on the 24th, arrived off the coast of the Peninsula

at about half-past one on the morning of the 25th, and there under a

setting moon, in calm weather, they went on board the boats which were

to take them ashore. At about half-past three the tows left the ships

and proceeded in darkness to the coast.



Gaba or Kaba Tepe is a steep cliff or promontory about 70 feet high with

a whitish nose and something the look of a blunt-nosed torpedo or

porpoise. It is a forbidding-looking snout of land, covered with scrub

where it is not too steep for roots to hold, and washed by deep water.

About a mile to the north of it there is a possible landing place, and

north of that again a long and narrow strip of beach between two little

headlands. This latter beach cannot be seen from Gaba Tepe. The ground

above these beaches is exceedingly steep sandy cliff, broken by two

great gulleys or ravines, which run inland. All the ground, except in

one patch in the southern ravine, where there is a sort of meadow of

grass, is densely covered with scrub, mostly between two and three feet

high. Inland from the beach, the land of the Peninsula rises in steep,

broken hills and spurs, with clumps of pine upon them, and dense

undergrowths of scrub. The men selected for this landing were the 3rd

Brigade of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps, followed and

supported by the 1st and 2nd Brigades.



The place selected for the landing was the southern beach and nearer of

the two to Gaba Tepe. This, like the other landing places near Cape

Helles, was strongly defended, and most difficult of approach. Large

forces of Turks were entrenched there, well prepared. But in the

darkness of the early morning after the moon had set the tows stood a

little further to the north than they should have done, perhaps because

some high ground to their left made a convenient steering mark against

the stars. They headed in towards the northern beach between the two

little headlands, where the Turks were not expecting them. However, they

were soon seen and very heavy independent rifle fire was concentrated on

them. As they neared the beach "about one battalion of Turks" doubled

along the land to intercept them. These men came from nearer Gaba Tepe,

firing as they ran, into the mass of the boats at short range. A great

many men were killed in the boats, but the dead men's oars were taken by

survivors, and the boats forced into the shingle. The men jumped out,

waded ashore, charged the enemy with the bayonet, and broke the Turk

attack to pieces. The Turks scattered and were pursued, and now the

steep scrub-covered cliffs became the scene of the most desperate

fighting.



The scattered Turks dropped into the scrub and disappeared. Hidden all

over the rough cliffs, under every kind of cover, they sniped the beach

or ambushed the little parties of the 3rd Brigade who had rushed the

landing. All over the broken hills there were isolated fights to the

death, men falling into gullies and being bayoneted, sudden duels, point

blank, where men crawling through the scrub met each other and life went

to the quicker finger, heroic deaths, where some half section which had

lost touch were caught by ten times their strength and charged and died.

No man of our side knew that cracked and fissured jungle. Men broke

through it on to machine guns, or showed up on a crest and were blown to

pieces, or leaped down from it into some sap or trench, to catch the

bombs flung at them and hurl them at the thrower. Going as they did, up

cliffs, through scrub, over ground which would have broken the alignment

of the Tenth Legion, they passed many hidden Turks, who were thus left

to shoot them in the back or to fire down at the boats, from perhaps

only fifty yards away. It was only just light, theirs was the first

British survey of that wild country; only now, as it showed up clear,

could they realise its difficulty. They pressed on up the hill. They

dropped and fired and died; they drove the Turks back, they flung their

packs away, wormed through the bush and stalked the snipers from the

flash. As they went, the words of their song supported them, the ribald

and proud chorus of "Australia will be there," which the men on the

torpedoed _Southland_ sang, as they fell in, expecting death. Presently,

as it grew lighter, the Turks' big howitzers began shelling the beach,

and their field guns, well-hidden, opened on the transports now busy

disembarking the 1st and 2nd Brigades. They forced the transports to

stand further out to sea, and shelled the tows, as they came in, with

shrapnel and high explosive. As the boats drew near the shore every gun

on Gaba Tepe took them in flank and the snipers concentrated on them

from the shore. More and more Turks were coming up at the double to stop

the attack up the hill. The fighting in the scrub grew fiercer; shells

burst continually upon the beach, boats were sunk, men were killed in

the water. The boatmen and beach working-parties were the unsung heroes

of that landing. The boatmen came in with the tows, under fire, waited

with them under intense and concentrated fire of every kind, until they

were unloaded, and then shoved off, and put slowly back for more, and

then came back again. The beach parties were wading to and from that

shell-smitten beach all day, unloading, carrying ashore and sorting the

munitions and necessaries for many thousands of men. They worked in a

strip of beach and sea from 500 yards long by 40 broad, and the fire

directed on that strip was such that every box brought ashore had one or

more shells and not less than fifty bullets directed at it before it was

flung upon the sand. More men came in and went on up the hill in

support; but as yet there were no guns ashore, and the Turks' fire

became intenser. By ten o'clock the Turks had had time to bring up

enough men from their prepared positions to hold up the advance.

Scattered parties of our men who had gone too far in the scrub, were cut

off and killed, for there was no thought of surrender in those

marvellous young men; they were the flower of this world's manhood, and

died as they had lived, owning no master on this earth. More and more

Turks came up with big and field artillery, and now our attack had to

hold on to what it had won, against more than twice its numbers. We had

won a rough bow of ground, in which the beach represented the bow

string, the beach near Gaba Tepe the south end, and the hovel known as

Fisherman's Hut the north. Against this position, held by at most 8,000

of our men, who had had no rest and had fought hard since dawn, under

every kind of fire in a savage rough country unknown to them, came an

overwhelming army of Turks to drive them into the sea. For four hours

the Turks attacked and again attacked, with a terrific fire of artillery

and waves of men in succession. They came fresh, from superior

positions, with many guns, to break a disorganised line of breathless

men not yet dug in. The guns of the ships opened on them, and the

scattered units in the scrub rolled them back again and again by rifle

and machine gun fire, and by charge after counter charge. More of the

Army Corps landed to meet the Turks, the fire upon the beach never

slackened, and they came ashore across corpses and wrecked boats and a

path like a road in hell with ruin and blasts and burning. They went up

the cliff to their fellows under an ever-growing fire, that lit the

scrub and burned the wounded and the dead. Darkness came, but there was

no rest nor lull. Wave after wave of Turks came out of the night, crying

the proclamation of their faith; others stole up in the dark through the

scrub and shot or stabbed and crept back, or were seen and stalked and

killed. Flares went up, to light with their blue and ghastly glare the

wild glens peopled by the enemy. Men worked at the digging-in till they

dropped asleep upon the soil, and more Turks charged and they woke and

fired and again dug. It was cruelly cold after the sun had gone, but

there was no chance of warmth or proper food; to dig-in and beat back

the Turk or die was all that men could think of. In the darkness, among

the blasts of the shells, men scrambled up and down the pathless cliffs

bringing up tins of water and boxes of cartridges, hauling up guns and

shells, and bringing down the wounded. The beach was heaped with

wounded, placed as close under the cliff as might be, in such yard or so

of dead ground as the cliffs gave. The doctors worked among them and

shells fell among them and doctors and wounded were blown to pieces, and

the survivors sang their song of "Australia will be there," and cheered

the newcomers still landing on the beach. Sometimes our fire seemed to

cease and then the Turk shells filled the night with their scream and

blast and the pattering of their fragments. With all the fury and the

crying of the shells, and the shouts and cries and cursing on the beach,

the rattle of the small arms and the cheers and defiance up the hill,

and the roar of the great guns far away, at sea, or in the olive groves,

the night seemed in travail of a new age. All the blackness was shot

with little spurts of fire, and streaks of fire, and malignant bursts of

fire, and arcs and glows and crawling snakes of fire, and the moon rose,

and looked down upon it all. In the fiercer hours of that night shells

fell in that contested mile of ground and on the beach beyond it at the

rate of one a second, and the air whimpered with passing bullets, or

fluttered with the rush of the big shells, or struck the head of the

passer like a moving wall with the shock of the explosion. All through

the night, the Turks attacked, and in the early hours their fire of

shrapnel became so hellish that the Australians soon had not men enough

left to hold the line. Orders were given to fall back to a shorter line,

but in the darkness, uproar and confusion, with many sections refusing

to fall back, others falling back and losing touch, others losing their

way in gully or precipice, and shrapnel hailing on all, as it had hailed

for hours, the falling back was mistaken by some for an order to

re-embark. Many men who had lost their officers and non-commissioned

officers fell back to the beach, where the confusion of wounded men,

boxes of stores, field dressing stations, corpses and the litter and the

waste of battle, had already blocked the going. The shells bursting in

this clutter made the beach, in the words of an eye-witness, "like

bloody hell and nothing else." But at this breaking of the wave of

victory, this panting moment in the race, when some of the runners had

lost their first wind, encouragement reached our men: a message came to

the beach from Sir Ian Hamilton, to say that help was coming, and that

an Australian submarine had entered the Narrows and had sunk a Turkish

transport off Chanak.



This word of victory, coming to men who thought for the moment that

their efforts had been made in vain, had the effect of a fresh brigade.

The men rallied back up the hill; bearing the news to the firing-line,

the new, constricted line was made good, and the rest of the night was

never anything but continued victory to those weary ones in the scrub.

But 24 hours of continual battle exhausts men, and by dawn the Turks,

knowing the weariness of our men, resolved to beat them down into the

sea. When the sun was well in our men's eyes they attacked again, with

not less than twice our entire strength of fresh men, and with an

overwhelming superiority in field artillery. Something in the Turk

commander and the knowledge that a success there would bring our men

across the peninsula within a day, made the Turks more desperate enemies

there than elsewhere. They came at us with a determination which might

have triumphed against other troops. As they came on they opened a

terrific fire of shrapnel upon our position, pouring in such a hail that

months afterwards one could see their round shrapnel bullets stuck in

bare patches of ground, or in earth thrown up from the trenches, as

thickly as plums in a pudding. Their multitudes of men pressed through

the scrub as skirmishers, and sniped at every moving thing; for they

were on higher ground and could see over most of our position, and every

man we had was under direct fire for hours of each day. As the attack

developed, the promised help arrived, our warships stood in and opened

on the Turks with every gun that would bear. Some kept down the guns of

Gaba Tepe, others searched the line of the Turk advance, till the hills

over which they came were swathed with yellow smoke and dust, the white

clouds of shrapnel, and the drifting darkness of conflagration. All the

scrub was in a blaze before them, but they pressed on, falling in heaps

and lines; and their guns dropped a never-ceasing rain of shells on

trenches, beach and shipping. The landing of stores and ammunition never

ceased during the battle. The work of the beach-parties in that scene of

burning and massacre was beyond all praise: so was the work of the

fatigue parties who passed up and down the hill with water, ammunition

and food, or dug sheltered roads to the trenches; so was the work of the

Medical Service, who got the wounded out of cuts in the earth, so narrow

and so twisted that there was no using a stretcher and men had to be

carried on stretcher bearers' backs or on improvised chairs made out of

packing cases.



At a little before noon the Turk attack reached its height in a blaze

and uproar of fire, and the swaying forward of their multitudes. The

guns of the warships swept them from flank to flank with every engine of

death: they died by hundreds, and the attack withered as it came. Our

men saw the enemy fade and slacken and halt; then with their cheer they

charged him and beat him home, seized new ground from him, and dug

themselves in in front of him. All through the day there was fighting up

and down the line, partial attacks, and never-ceasing shell-fire, but no

other great attack, the Turks had suffered too much. At night their

snipers came out in the scrub and shot at anything they could see, and

all night long their men dragged up field guns and piles of shrapnel,

and worked at the trenches which were to contain ours. When day dawned,

they opened with shrapnel upon the beach, with a _feu de barrage_

designed to stop all landing of men and stores. They whipped the bay

with shrapnel bullets. Where their fire was concentrated, the water was

lashed as with hail all day long; but the boats passed through it, and

men worked in it, building jetties for the boats to land at, using a big

Turk shell as a pile driver: when they got too hot they bathed in it,

for no fire shook those men. It was said, that when a big shell was

coming, men of other races would go into their dugouts, but that these

men paused only to call it a bastard and then went on with their work.



By the night of the second day, the Australian and New Zealand Army

Corps had won and fortified their position. Men writing or reporting on

service about them referred to them as the A.N.Z.A.C., and these letters

soon came to mean the place in which they were, un-named till then,

probably, save by some rough Turkish place-name, but now likely to be

printed on all English maps, with the other names, of Brighton Beach and

Hell Spit, which mark a great passage of arms.









III



King Marsilies parted his army: ten columns he kept by him, and the

other ten rode in to fight. The Franks said: "God, what ruin we shall

have here. What will become of the twelve Peers?" The Archbishop Turpin

answered first: "Good knights, you are the friends of God; to-day you

will be crowned and flowered, resting in the holy flowers of Paradise,

where no coward will ever come."



The Franks answered: "We will not fail. If it be God's will, we will not

murmur. We will fight against our enemies: we are few men, but

well-hardened."



They spurred forward to fight the pagans. The Franks and Saracens are

mingled.



 _The Song of Roland._





This early fighting, which lasted from dawn on the 25th April till noon

on the following day, won us a footing, not more than that, on the

Peninsula; it settled the German brag that we should never be able to

land. We had landed upon, had taken, and were holding the whole of the

southwestern extremity of the Peninsula and a strip of the Ægean coast,

in the face of an army never less than twice our strength, strongly

entrenched and well supplied. We had lost very heavily in the attack,

our men were weary from the exceedingly severe service of the landing,

but the morrow began the second passage in the campaign, the advance

from the sea, before the Turks should have recovered.



Many have said to me, with a naïveté that would be touching if it were

not so plainly inspired by our enemies: "Why did not the troops press on

at once, the day they landed? The Japanese pressed on the day they

landed, so did the Americans in Cuba. If you had pressed on at once, you

would have won the whole Peninsula. The Turks were at their last

cartridge, and would have surrendered."



It is quite true that the Japanese moved inland immediately from their

transports at Chemulpho and Chinampo. Those ports were seized before the

Russians knew that war was declared: they were not defended by Russian

soldiers, and the two small Russian cruisers caught there by the

Japanese fleet were put out of action before the transports discharged.

The Japanese were free to land as they chose on beaches prepared, not

with machine guns and mines, but with cranes, gangways and good roads.

Even so, they did not press on. The Japanese do not press on unless they

are attacking: they are as prudent as they are brave: they waited till

they were ready and then marched on. The Americans landed at Daiquiri

and at Guanica unopposed and in neither case engaged the enemy till next

day.



In the preceding chapter I have tried to show why we did not press on at

once, after landing. We did not, because we could not, because two fresh

men strongly entrenched, with machine guns, will stop one tired man with

a rifle in nine cases out of ten. Our men had done the unimaginable in

getting ashore at all, they could not do the impossible on the same day.

I used to say this, to draw the answer, "Well, other troops would have

done it," so that I might say, what I know to be the truth, that no

other men on this earth either would have or could have made good the

landing; and that the men have not yet been born who could have advanced

after such a feat of arms. The efforts of men are limited by their

strength: the strength of men, always easily exhausted, is the only

strength at the disposal of a general, it is the money to be spent by

him in the purchase of victory, whether by hours of marching in the mud,

digging in the field, or in attack. Losses in attack are great, though

occasional, losses from other causes are great and constant. All armies

in the field have to be supplied constantly with fresh drafts to make

good the losses from attack and exhaustion. No armies can move without

these replenishments, just as no individual men can go on working, after

excessive labour, without rest and food. Our losses in the landings were

severe, even for modern war, even for the Dardanelles. The bloodiest

battle of modern times is said to have been Antietam or Sharpsburg, in

the American Civil War, where the losses were perhaps nearly one-third

of the men engaged. At V Beach the Munsters lost more than one-third,

and the Dublins more than three-fifths of their total strength. The

Lancashires at W Beach lost nearly as heavily as the Dublins. At Anzac,

one Australian battalion lost 422 out of 900. At X Beach, the Royals

lost 487 out of 979. All these battalions had lost more than half their

officers, indeed by the 28th April the Dublins had only one officer

left. How could these dwindled battalions press on?



Then for the individual exhaustion. Those engaged in the first landing

were clambering and fighting in great heat, without proper food, and in

many cases without water, for the first 24 or 36 hours, varying the

fighting with hurried but deep digging in marl or clay, getting no

sleep, nor any moment's respite from the peril of death. Then, at the

end of the first phase, when the fact that they had won the landing was

plain, some of these same men, unrested, improperly fed, and wet through

with rain, sweat and the sea, had to hold what they had won, while the

others went down to the beach to make piers, quarry roads, dig shelters,

and wade out to carry or drag on shore food, drink, munitions and heavy

guns, and to do this without appliances, by the strength of their arms.

Then when these things had been done almost to the limit of human

endurance, they carried water, food and ammunition to the trenches, not

in carts but on their backs, and then relieved their fellows in the

trenches and withstood the Turk attacks and replied to the Turks' fire

for hours on end. At Anzac the A.N.Z. Army Corps had "96 hours'

continuous fighting in the trenches with little or no sleep" and "at no

time during the 96 hours did the Turks' firing cease, although it varied

in volume; at times the fusillade was simply deafening." Men worked like

this, to the limit of physical endurance, under every possible exposure

to wet, heat, cold, death, hunger, thirst and want of rest, become

exhausted, and their nerves shattered, not from fear, which was a thing

those men did not understand, but because the machine breaks. On the top

of the misery, exhaustion and nerve-ceasing peril, is "the dreadful

anxiety of not knowing how the battle is progressing," and the still

worse anxiety of vigilance. To the strain of keeping awake, when

dead-beat, is added the strain of watching men, peering for spies,

stalking for snipers and listening for bombing-parties. Under all these

strains the minds of strong men give way. They are the intensest strains

ever put upon intelligences. Men subjected to them for many hours at a

time cannot at once "press on," however brave their hearts may be. Those

who are unjust enough to think that they can, or could, should work for

a summer's day, without food or drink, at digging, then work for a night

in the rain carrying heavy boxes, then dig for some hours longer, and at

the end ask me to fire a machine gun at them while they "press on,"

across barbed wire, in what they presume to be the proper manner.



Our men could not "press on" at once. They had not enough unwounded men

to do more than hold the hordes of fresh Turks continually brought up

against them. They had no guns ashore to prepare an advance, nor enough

rifle ammunition to stand a siege. They had the rations in their packs

and the water in their bottles, and no other supplies but the seven

days' food, water and rifle ammunition put into each boat at the

landing. To get men, stores, water and guns ashore, under fire, on

beaches without wharves, cranes or derricks of any kind, takes time, and

until men and goods were landed no advance was possible. Until then, our

task was not to press on, but to hang on, like grim death. It was for

the enemy to press on, to beat our tired troops before their supports

could be landed, and this the Turks very well understood, as their

captured orders show, and as their behaviour showed only too clearly.

During the days which followed the landing, the Turks, far from being at

their last cartridge, and eager to surrender, prevented our pressing on,

by pressing on themselves, in immense force and with a great artillery,

till our men were dying of fatigue in driving back their attacks.



One point more may be discussed, before resuming the story. The legend,

"that the Turks were at their last cartridge and would have surrendered

had we advanced," is very widely spread abroad by German emissaries. It

appears in many forms, in print, in the lecture and in conversation.

Sometimes place and date are given, sometimes the authority, all

confidently, but always differently. It is well to state here the truth

so that the lie may be known. The Turks were never at the end of their

supplies. They were always better and more certainly supplied with

shells and cartridges than we were. If they were ever (as perhaps they

sometimes were) rather short of big gun ammunition, so were we. If they

were sometimes rather short of rifles and rifle ammunition, so were we.

If they were often short of food and all-precious water, so were we, and

more so, and doubly more so. For all our supplies came over hundreds of

miles of stormy water infested by submarines and were landed on open

beaches under shell fire, and their supplies came along the Asiatic

coast and by ferry across the Hellespont, and thence, in comparative

safety, by road to the trenches. The Turkish army was well supplied,

well equipped, more numerous and in better positions than our own. There

was neither talk nor thought among them at any time of surrender, nor

could there have been, in an army so placed and so valiant. There was

some little disaffection among them. They hated their German officers

and the German methods of discipline so much that many prisoners when

taken expressed pleasure at being taken, spat at the name of German, and

said "English good, German bad." Some of this, however, may have been

Levantine tact.



Late on the 26th April, the French corps landed men at V Beach and took

the trenches on the right of the ground won, i.e., towards the Straits.

At noon the next day the whole force advanced inland without much

opposition, for rather more than a mile. At nightfall on the 27th, they

held a line across the Peninsula from the mouth of the Sighir

watercourse (on the Ægean) to Eski Hissarlik (on the Straits). The men

were very weary from the incessant digging of trenches, fighting, and

dragging up of stores from the beach. They dug themselves in under shell

and rifle fire, stood to their arms to repel Turk attacks for most of

the night, and at eight next morning began the battle of the 28th of

April. The French corps was on the right. The 29th Division (with one

battalion of the R.N. Division), on the left. They advanced across rough

moorland and little cultivated patches to attack the Turk town of

Krithia. All the ground over which they advanced gave cover of the best

kind to the defence. All through the morning, at odd times, the creeping

companies going over that broken country came suddenly under the fire of

machine guns, and lost men before they could fling themselves down. In

the heather and torrent-beds of the Scotch-looking moorland the Turk had

only to wait in cover till his targets appeared, climbing a wall or

getting out of a gulley, then he could turn on his machine guns, at six

hundred shots a minute each, and hold up the advance. From time to time

the Turks attacked in great numbers. Early in the afternoon our advance

reached its furthest point, about three quarters of a mile from Krithia.

Our artillery, short of ammunition at the best of times, and in these

early days short of guns, too, did what it could, though it had only

shrapnel, which is of small service against an entrenched enemy. Those

who were there have said that nothing depressed them more than the

occasional shells from our guns in answer to the continual fire from the

Turk artillery. They felt themselves out-gunned and without support.

Rifle cartridges were running short, for, in spite of desperate efforts,

in that roadless wild land with the beaches jammed with dead, wounded,

stores, the wrecks of boats, and parties trying to build piers under

shell-fire, it was not possible to land or to send up cartridges in the

quantity needed. There were not yet enough mules ashore to take the

cartridge-boxes and men could not be spared; there were too few men to

hold the line. Gradually our men fell back a little from the ground they

had won. The Turks brought up more men, charged us, and drove us back a

little more, and were then themselves held. Our men dug themselves in as

best they could and passed another anxious night, in bitter cold and

driving rain, staving off a Turk attack, which was pressed with resolute

courage against our centre and the French corps to the right of it.

There were very heavy losses on both sides, but the Turks were killed in

companies at every point of attack and failed to drive us further.



The next two days were passed in comparative quiet, in strengthening the

lines, landing men, guns and stores and preparing for the next advance.

This war has shown what an immense reserve of shell is needed to prepare

a modern advance. Our men never had that immense reserve, nor, indeed a

large reserve, and in those early days they had no reserve at all, but a

day to day allowance, and before a reserve was formed the Turks came

down upon us with every man and gun they had, in the desperate night

attack of the 1st of May. This began with shell-fire at ten P.M., and

was followed half-an-hour later by a succession of charges in close

order. The Turk front ranks crept up on hands and knees without firing

(their cartridges had been taken from them) and charged our trenches

with the bayonet. They got into our trenches in the dark, bayoneted the

men in them, broke our line, got through to the second line and were

there mixed up in the night in a welter of killing and firing beyond

description. The moon had not risen when the attack came home. The

fighting took place in the dark: men fired and stabbed in all

directions, at flashes, at shouts, by the burning of the flares, by the

coloured lights of the Turk officers, and by the gleams of the shells on

our right. There were 9,000 Turks in the first line, 12,000 more behind

them. They advanced yelling for God and Enver Pasha, amid the roar of

every gun and rifle in range. They broke through the French, were held,

then driven back, then came again, bore everything before them, and then

met the British supports and went no further. Our supports charged the

Turks and beat them back; at dawn our entire line advanced and beat them

back in a rout, till their machine guns stopped us.



Upon many of the dead Turks in front of the French and English trenches

were copies of an address issued by a German officer, one Von

Zowenstern, calling on the Turks to destroy the enemy, since their only

hope of salvation was to win the battle or die in the attempt. On some

bodies were other orders, for the Mahometan priests to encourage the men

to advance, for officers to shoot those soldiers who hung back, and for

prisoners to be left with the reserves, not taken to the rear. In this

early part of the campaign there were many German officers in the

Turkish army. In these early night attacks they endeavoured to confuse

our men by shouting orders to them in English. One, on the day of the

landing, walked up to one of the trenches of the 29th Division and cried

out, "Surrender, you English, we ten to one." "He was thereupon hit on

the head with a spade by a man who was improving his trench with it."



This battle never ceased for five days. The artillery was never silent.

Our men were shelled, sniped and shrapnelled every day and all day long,

and at night the Turks attacked with the bayonet. By the evening of the

5th May the 29th Division, which had won the end of the Peninsula, had

been reduced by one-half and its officers by two-thirds. The proportion

of officers to men in a British battalion is as one to thirty-seven, but

in the list of killed the proportion was as one to eleven. The officers

of that wonderful company poured out their lives like water; they

brought their weary men forward hour after hour in all that sleepless

ten days, and at the end led them on once more in the great attack of

the 6th-8th of May.



This attack was designed to push the Allied lines further forward into

the Peninsula, so as to win a little more ground, and ease the growing

congestion on the beaches near Cape Helles. The main Turkish position

lay on and about the hump of Achi Baba, and on the high ground

stretching down from it. It was hoped that even if Achi Baba could not

be carried, the ground below him, including the village of Krithia,

might be taken. The movement was to be a general advance, with the

French on the right attacking the high ground nearer to the Straits, the

29th Division on the left, between the French and the sea, attacking the

slowly sloping ground which leads past Krithia up to Achi Baba. Krithia

stands high upon the slope, among orchards and gardens, and makes a good

artillery target, but the slope on which it stands, being much broken,

covered with dense scrub (some of it thorny) and with clumps of trees,

is excellent for defence. The Turks had protected that square mile of

ground with many machine guns and trenches so skilfully concealed that

they could not be seen either from close in front or from aeroplanes.

The French line of attack was over ground equally difficult, but

steeper, and therefore giving more "dead ground," or patches upon which

no direct fire can be turned by the defence. The line of battle from the

French right to the English left stretched right across the Peninsula

with a front (owing to bends and salients) of about five miles. It was

nearly everywhere commanded by the guns of Achi Baba, and in certain

places the enemy batteries on the Turk left, near the Straits, could

enfilade it. Our men were weary but the Turks were expecting strong

reinforcements; the attack could not be delayed.



 [Illustration: Exercising mules. A photograph taken late in the

 evening. A shell is seen bursting in the background. The highest point

 on the horizon is Achi Baba.]



Few people who have not seen modern war can understand what it is like.

They look at a map, which is a small flat surface, and find it difficult

to believe that a body of men could have had difficulty in passing from

one point upon it to another. They think that they themselves would have

found no difficulty, that they would not have been weary nor thirsty,

the distance demanded of them being only a mile, possibly a mile and a

quarter, and the reward a very great one. They think that troops who

failed to pass across that mile must have been in some way wanting, and

that had they been there, either in command or in the attack, the

results would have been different.



One can only answer, that in modern war it is not easy to carry a

well-defended site by direct attack. In modern war, you may not know,

till fire breaks out upon you, where the defence, which you have to

attack, is hidden. You may not know (in darkness, in a strange land)

more than vaguely which is your "front," and you may pass by your enemy,

or over him, or under him without seeing him. You may not see your enemy

at all. You may fight for days and never see an enemy. In modern war

troops see no enemy till he attacks them; then, in most cases if they

are well entrenched with many guns behind them, they can destroy him.



The Allied officers, looking through their field glasses at the ground

to be attacked, could see only rough, sloping ground, much gullied, much

overgrown, with a few clumps of trees, a few walls, orchards and houses,

but no guns, no trenches, no enemy. Aeroplanes scouting over the Turks

could see men but not the trenches nor the guns, they could only report

that they suspected them to be in such a place. Sometimes in the

mornings men would notice that the earth was turned newly on some bare

patch on the hill, but none could be sure that this digging was not a

ruse to draw fire. The trenches were hidden cunningly, often with a

head-cover of planks so strewn with earth and planted with scrub as to

be indistinguishable from the ground about. The big guns were coloured

cunningly, like a bird or snake upon the ground. From above in an

aeroplane an observer could not pick them out so as to be certain, if

they were not in action at the time. Brave men scouting forward at night

to reconnoitre brought back some information, but not more than enough

to show that the Turks were there in force. No man in the Allied Army

expected less than a desperate battle; no officer in the world could

have made it anything but that, with all the odds against us. Nothing

could be done but cover the Turk position with the fire of every gun on

shore or in the ships and then send the men forward, to creep or dash as

far as they could, and then dig themselves in.



Let the reader imagine himself to be facing three miles of any very

rough broken sloping ground known to him, ground for the most part

gorse-thyme-and-scrub-covered, being poor soil, but in some places

beautiful with flowers (especially "a spiked yellow flower with a

whitish leaf") and on others green from cultivation. Let him say to

himself that he and an army of his friends are about to advance up the

slope towards the top, and that as they will be advancing in a line,

along the whole length of the three miles, he will only see the advance

of those comparatively near to him, since folds or dips in the ground

will hide the others. Let him, before he advances, look earnestly along

the line of the hill, as it shows up clear, in blazing sunlight only a

mile from him, to see his tactical objective, one little clump of pines,

three hundred yards away, across what seem to be fields. Let him see in

the whole length of the hill no single human being, nothing but scrub,

earth, a few scattered buildings, of the Levantine type (dirty white

with roofs of dirty red) and some patches of dark Scotch pine, growing

as the pine loves, on bleak crests. Let him imagine himself to be more

weary than he has ever been in his life before, and dirtier than he has

ever believed it possible to be, and parched with thirst, nervous,

wild-eyed and rather lousy. Let him think that he has not slept for more

than a few minutes together for eleven days and nights, and that in all

his waking hours he has been fighting for his life, often hand to hand

in the dark with a fierce enemy, and that after each fight he has had to

dig himself a hole in the ground, often with his hands, and then walk

three or four roadless miles to bring up heavy boxes under fire. Let him

think, too, that in all those eleven days he has never for an instant

been out of the thunder of cannon, that waking or sleeping their

devastating crash has been blasting the air across within a mile or two,

and this from an artillery so terrible that each discharge beats as it

were a wedge of shock between the skull-bone and the brain. Let him

think too that never, for an instant, in all that time, has he been free

or even partly free from the peril of death in its most sudden and

savage forms, and that hourly in all that time he has seen his friends

blown to pieces at his side, or dismembered, or drowned, or driven mad,

or stabbed, or sniped by some unseen stalker, or bombed in the dark sap

with a handful of dynamite in a beef-tin, till their blood is caked upon

his clothes and thick upon his face, and that he knows, as he stares at

the hill, that in a few moments, more of that dwindling band, already

too few, God knows how many too few, for the task to be done, will be

gone the same way, and that he himself may reckon that he has done with

life, tasted and spoken and loved his last, and that in a few minutes

more may be blasted dead, or lying bleeding in the scrub, with perhaps

his face gone and a leg and an arm broken, unable to move but still

alive, unable to drive away the flies or screen the ever-dropping rain,

in a place where none will find him, or be able to help him, a place

where he will die and rot and shrivel, till nothing is left of him but a

few rags and a few remnants and a little identification-disc flapping on

his bones in the wind. Then let him hear the intermittent crash and

rattle of the fire augment suddenly and awfully in a roaring, blasting

roll, unspeakable and unthinkable, while the air above, that has long

been whining and whistling, becomes filled with the scream of shells

passing like great cats of death in the air; let him see the slope of

the hill vanish in a few moments into the white, yellow and black smokes

of great explosions shot with fire, and watch the lines of white puffs

marking the hill in streaks where the shrapnel searches a suspected

trench; and then, in the height of the tumult, when his brain is shaking

in his head, let him pull himself together with his friends, and clamber

up out of the trench, to go forward against an invisible enemy, safe in

some unseen trench expecting him.



The Twenty-ninth Division went forward under these conditions on the 6th

of May. They dashed on, or crawled, for a few yards at a time, then

dropped for a few instants before squirming on again. In such an advance

men do not see the battlefield. They see the world as the rabbit sees

it, crouching on the ground, just their own little patch. On broken

ground like that, full of dips and rises, men may be able to see nothing

but perhaps the ridge of a bank ten feet ahead, with the dust flying in

spouts all along it, as bullets hit it, some thousand a minute, and

looking back or to their flanks they may see no one but perhaps a few

men of their own platoon lying tense but expectant, ready for the sign

to advance while the bullets pipe over them in a never-ending birdlike

croon. They may be shut off by some all-important foot of ground from

seeing how they are fronting, from all knowledge of what the next

platoon is doing or suffering. It may be quite certain death to peep

over that foot of ground in order to find out, and while they wait for a

few instants shells may burst in their midst and destroy a half of them.

Then the rest, nerving themselves, rush up the ridge, and fall in a line

dead under machine-gun fire. The supports come up, creeping over their

corpses, get past the ridge, into scrub which some shell has set on

fire. Men fall wounded in the fire, and the cartridges in their

bandoliers explode and slowly kill them. The survivors crawl through the

scrub, half-choked, and come out on a field full of flowers tangled

three feet high with strong barbed wire. They wait for a while, to try

to make out where the enemy is. They may see nothing but the slope of

the field running up to a sky line, and a flash of distant sea on a

flank, but no sign of any enemy, only the crash of guns and the pipe and

croon and spurt of bullets. Gathering themselves together their brave

men dash out to cut the wire and are killed; others take their places

and are killed; others step out with too great a pride even to stoop,

and pull up the supports of the wires and fling them down, and fall dead

on top of them, having perhaps cleared a couple of yards. Then a couple

of machine guns open on the survivors and kill them all in thirty

seconds, with the concentrated fire of a battalion.



The supports come up, and hear about the wire from some wounded man who

has crawled back through the scrub. They send back word, "Held up by

wire," and in time the message comes to the telephone which has just

been blown to pieces by a shell. Presently when the telephone is

repaired, the message reaches the gunners, who fire high explosive

shells on to the wire, and on to the slopes where the machine guns may

be hidden. Then the supports go on over the flowers and are met midway

by a concentrated fire of shells, shrapnel, machine guns and rifles.

Those who are not killed lie down among the flowers and begin to scrape

little heaps of earth with their hands to give protection to their

heads. In the light sandy marl this does not take long, though many are

blown to pieces or hit in the back as they scrape. As before, they

cannot see how the rest of the attack is faring, nor even where the

other platoons of the battalion are; they lie scraping in the roots of

daffodils and lilies, while bullets sing and shriek a foot or two over

their heads. A man peering from his place in the flowers may make out

that the man next to him, some three yards away, is dead, and that the

man beyond is praying, the man beyond him cursing, and the man beyond

him out of his mind from nerves or thirst.



Long hours pass, but the air above them never ceases to cry like a live

thing with bullets flying. Men are killed or maimed, and the wounded cry

for water. Men get up to give them water and are killed. Shells fall at

regular intervals along the field. The waiting men count the seconds

between the shells to check the precision of the battery's fire. Some of

the bursts fling the blossoms and bulbs of flowers into the bodies of

men, where they are found long afterwards by the X-rays. Bursts and

roars of fire on either flank tell of some intense moment in other parts

of the line. Every feeling of terror and mental anguish and anxiety goes

through the mind of each man there, and is put down by resolve.



The supports come up, they rise with a cheer, and get out of the

accursed flowers, into a gulley where some men of their regiment are

already lying dead. There is a little wood to their front; they make for

that, and suddenly come upon a deep and narrow Turk trench full of men.

This is their first sight of the enemy. They leap down into the trench

and fight hand to hand, kill and are killed, in the long grave already

dug. They take the trench, but opening from the trench are saps, which

the Turks still hold. Men are shot dead at these saps by Turk

sharpshooters cunningly screened within them. Bullets fall in particular

places in the trench from snipers hidden in the trees of the wood. The

men send back for bombs, others try to find out where the rest of the

battalion lies, or send word that from the noise of the fire there must

be a battery of machine guns beyond the wood, if the guns would shell it.



Presently, before the bombs come, bombs begin to drop among them from

the Turks. Creeping up, the men catch them in their hands before they

explode and fling them back so that they burst among the Turks. Some

have their hands blown off, other their heads, in doing this, but the

bloody game of catch goes on till no Turks are left in the sap, only a

few wounded groaning men who slowly bleed to death there. After long

hours, the supports come up and a storm of high explosives searches the

little wood, and then with a cheer the remnant goes forward out of the

trench into the darkness of the pines. Fire opens on them from snipers

in the trees and from machine guns everywhere; they drop and die, and

the survivors see no enemy, only their friends falling and a place where

no living thing can pass. Men find themselves suddenly alone, with all

their friends dead, and no enemy in sight, but the rush of bullets

filling the air. They go back to the trench, not afraid, but in a kind

of maze, and as they take stock and count their strength there comes the

roar of the Turkish war cry, the drum-like proclamation of the faith,

and the Turks come at them with the bayonet. Then that lonely remnant of

a platoon stands to it with rapid fire, and the machine gun rattles like

a motor bicycle, and some ribald or silly song goes up, and the Turks

fail to get home, but die or waver and retreat and are themselves

charged as they turn. It is evening now; the day has passed in long

hours of deep experience, and the men have made two hundred yards. They

send back for supports and orders, link up, if they are lucky, with some

other part of their battalion, whose adventures, fifty yards away, have

been as intense, but wholly different, and prepare the Turk trench for

the night. Presently word reaches them from some faraway H.Q. (some

dug-out five hundred yards back, in what seems, by comparison, like

peaceful England) that there are no supports, and that the orders are to

hold the line at all costs and prepare for a fresh advance on the

morrow. Darkness falls, and ammunition and water come up, and the

stretcher-bearers hunt for the wounded by the groans, while the Turks

search the entire field with shell to kill the supports which are not

there. Some of the men in the trench creep out to their front, and are

killed there as they fix a wire entanglement. The survivors make ready

for the Turk attack, certain soon to come. There is no thought of sleep;

it is too cold for sleep; the men shiver as they stare into the night;

they take the coats of the dead, and try to get a little warmth. There

is no moon and the rain begins. The marl at the bottom of the trench is

soon a sticky mud, and the one dry patch is continually being sniped. A

few exhausted ones fall not into sleep but into nervous dreams, full of

twitches and cries, like dogs' nightmares, and away at sea some ship

opens with her great guns at an unseen target up the hill. The terrific

crashes shake the air; some one sees a movement in the grass and fires;

others start up and fire. The whole irregular line starts up and fires,

the machine guns rattle, the officers curse, and the guns behind,

expecting an attack, send shells into the woods. Then slowly the fire

drops and dies, and stray Turks, creeping up, fling bombs into the

trench.





This kind of fighting, between isolated bodies of men advancing in a

great concerted tactical movement stretching right across the Peninsula,

went on throughout the 6th, the 7th and the 8th of May, and ended on the

evening of the 8th in a terrific onslaught of the whole line, covered by

a great artillery. The final stage of the battle was a sight of stirring

and awful beauty. The Allied line went forward steadily behind the

moving barrier of the explosions of their shells. Every gun on both

sides opened and maintained a fire dreadful to hear and see. Our men

were fighting for a little patch of ground vital not so much to the

success of the undertaking, the clearing of the Narrows, as to their

existence on the Peninsula. In such a battle, each platoon, each

section, each private soldier influences the result, and "pays as

current coin in that red purchase" as the brigadier. The working parties

on the beaches left their work (it is said) to watch and cheer that last

advance. It was a day of the unmatchable clear Ægean spring; Samothrace

and Euboea were stretched out in the sunset like giants watching the

chess, waiting, it seemed, almost like human things, as they had waited

for the fall of Troy and the bale-fires of Agamemnon. Those watchers saw

the dotted order of our advance stretching across the Peninsula, moving

slowly forward, and halting and withering away, among fields of flowers

of spring and the young corn that would never come to harvest. They saw

the hump of Achi Baba flicker and burn and roll up to heaven in a swathe

of blackness, and multitudinous brightness changing the face of the

earth, and the dots of our line still coming, still moving forward, and

halting and withering away, but still moving up among the flashes and

the darkness, more men, and yet more men, from the fields of sacred

France, from the darkness of Senegal, from sheep-runs at the ends of the

earth, from blue-gum-forests, and sunny islands, places of horses and

good fellows, from Irish pastures and glens, and from many a Scotch and

English city and village and quiet farm; they went on and they went on,

up ridges blazing with explosion into the darkness of death. Sometimes,

as the light failed, and peak after peak that had been burning against

the sky, grew rigid as the colour faded, the darkness of the great

blasts hid sections of the line, but when the darkness cleared they were

still there, line after line of dots, still more, still moving forward

and halting and withering away, and others coming, and halting and

withering away, and others following, as though those lines were not

flesh and blood and breaking nerve but some tide of the sea coming in

waves that fell yet advanced, that broke a little further, and gained

some yard in breaking, and were then followed, and slowly grew, that

halted and seemed to wither, and then gathered and went on, till night

covered those moving dots, and the great slope was nothing but a

blackness spangled with the flashes of awful fire.



What can be said of that advance? The French were on the right, the

Twenty-ninth Division on the left, some Australians and New Zealanders

(brought down from Anzac) in support. It was their thirteenth day of

continual battle, and who will ever write the story of even one

half-hour of that thirteenth day? Who will ever know one hundredth part

of the deeds of heroism done in them, by platoons and sections and

private soldiers, who offered their lives without a thought to help some

other part of the line, who went out to cut wire, or brought up water

and ammunition, or cheered on some bleeding remnant of a regiment,

halting on that hill of death, and kept their faces to the shrapnel and

the never-ceasing pelt of bullets, as long as they had strength to go

and light to see? They brought the line forward from a quarter of a mile

to six hundred yards further into the Peninsula; they dug in after dark

on the line they had won, and for the next thirty-six hours they stood

to arms to beat back the charges of the Turks who felt themselves

threatened at the heart.



Our army had won their hold upon the Peninsula. On the body of a dead

Turk officer was a letter written the night before to his wife, a tender

letter, filled mostly with personal matters. In it was the phrase,

"These British are the finest fighters in the world. We have chosen the

wrong friends."









IV



So great is the heat that the dust rises.



 _The Song of Roland._





During the next three weeks, the Allied troops made small advances in

parts of the lines held by them at Anzac and Cape Helles. Fighting was

continuous in both zones, there was always much (and sometimes intense)

artillery fire. The Turks frequently attacked in force, sometimes in

very great force, but were repulsed. Our efforts were usually

concentrated on some redoubt, stronghold, or salient, in the nearer

Turkish lines, the fire from which galled our trenches, or threatened

any possible advance. These posts were either heavily bombarded and then

rushed under the cover of a _feu de barrage_, or carried by surprise

attack. Great skill and much dashing courage were shown in these

assaults. The emplacements of machine guns were seized and the guns

destroyed, dangerous trenches or parts of trenches were carried and

filled in, and many roosts or hiding places of snipers were made

untenable. These operations were on a small scale, and were designed to

improve the position then held by us, rather than to carry the whole

line further up the Peninsula. Sometimes they failed, but by far the

greater number succeeded, so that by these methods, eked out by ruses,

mines, clever invention and the most dare-devil bravery, parts of our

lines were advanced by more than a hundred yards.



 [Illustration: Anzac from the Sea]



On the 4th of June, a second great attack was made by the Allied troops

near Cape Helles. Like the attack of the 6th-8th May, it was an advance

of the whole line, from the Straits to the sea, against the enemy's

front line trenches. As before, the French were on the right and the

29th Division on the left, but between them, in this advance, were the

R.N. Division and the newly arrived 42nd Division. Our men advanced

after a prolonged and terrible bombardment, which so broke down the Turk

defence that the works were carried all along the line, except in one

place, on the left of the French sector and in one other place, on our

own left, near the sea. Our advance, as before, varied in depth from a

quarter of a mile to six hundred yards; all of it carried by a rush, in

a short time, owing to the violence of the artillery preparation, though

with heavy losses from shrapnel and machine-gun fire. In this attack,

the 42nd or East Lancashire Division received its baptism of fire. Even

those who had seen the men of the 29th Division in the battles for the

landing admitted that "nothing could have been finer" than the extreme

gallantry of these newly landed men. The Manchester Brigade and two

companies of the 5th Lancashire Fusiliers advanced with the most

glorious and dashing courage, routed the Turks, carried both their lines

of trenches; and one battalion, the 6th, very nearly carried the village

of Krithia; there was, in fact, no entrenched line between them and the

top of Achi Baba.



But in this campaign we were to taste, and be upon the brink of victory

in every battle, yet have the prize dashed from us, by some failure

elsewhere, each time. So, in this first rush, when, for the first time,

our men felt that they, not the Turks, were the real attackers, the

victory was not to remain with us. We had no high explosive shell and

not enough shrapnel shell to deny to the Turks the use of their superior

numbers and to hold them in a beaten state. They rallied and made strong

counter attacks especially upon a redoubt or earthwork-fortress called

the "Haricot," on the left of the French sector, which the French had

stormed an hour before and garrisoned with Senegalese troops. The Turks

heavily shelled this work and then rushed it; the Senegalese could not

hold it; the French could not support it; and the Turks won it.

Unfortunately, the Haricot enfiladed the lines we had won. In a little

while the Turks developed from it a deadly enfilade fire upon the R.N.

Division which had won the Turk trenches to the west of it. The R.N.

Division was forced to fall back and in doing so uncovered the right of

the Brigade of Manchesters beyond it to the westward. The Manchesters

were forced to give ground, the French were unable to make a new attack

upon the Haricot, so that by nightfall our position was less good than

it had been at half-past twelve.



But for the fall of the Haricot the day would have been a notable

victory for ourselves. Still, over three miles of the Allied front, our

lines had been pushed forward from 200 to 400 yards. This, in modern war

is a big advance, but it brings upon the conquerors a very severe labor

of digging. The trenches won from the defence have to be converted to the

uses of the attack and linked up, by saps and communication-trenches,

with the works from which the attack advanced. All this labour had to be

done by our men in the midst of bitter fighting, for the Turks fought

hard to win back these trenches in many bloody counter attacks, and (as

always happened, after each advance) outlying works and trenches, from

which fire could be brought to bear upon the newly won ground, had to be

carried, filled in, or blown up before the new line was secure.



A little after dawn on the 21st June the French stormed and won the

Haricot redoubt, and advanced the right of the Allied position by 600

yards; the Turkish counter attacks were bloodily defeated.



In the forenoon of the 28th June, the English divisions advanced the

left of the Allied position by a full 1,000 yards. This attack, which

was one of the most successful of the campaign, was the first of which

it could be said that it was a victory. Of course our presence upon the

Peninsula was in itself a victory, but in this battle we were not trying

to land nor to secure ourselves, but (for the first time) to force a

decision. Three of our divisions challenged the greater part of the Turk

army and beat it. And here, for the first time in the operations, we

felt, what all our soldiers had expected, that want of fresh men in

reserve to make a success decisive, which afterwards lost us the

campaign.



Our enemies have often said, that the English cannot plan nor execute an

attack. In this battle of June 28th, the attack was a perfect piece of

planning and execution. Everything was exactly timed, everything worked

smoothly. Ten thousand soldiers, not one of whom had had more than six

months' training, advanced uphill after an artillery preparation and won

two lines of elaborately fortified trenches, by the bayonet alone. Then,

while these men consolidated and made good the ground which they had

won, the artillery lengthened their fuses and bombarded the ground

beyond them. When the artillery ceased, ten thousand fresh soldiers

climbed out of the English lines, ran forward, leaped across the two

lines of Turk trench already taken and took three more lines of trench,

each line a fortress in itself. Besides advancing our position a

thousand yards, this attack forced back the right of the Turks from the

sea, and won a strong position between the sea and Krithia, almost

turning Achi Baba. But much more than this was achieved. The great

triumph of the day was the certainty then acquired that the Turks were

beaten, that they were no longer the fierce and ardent fighters who had

rushed V beach in the dark, but a shaken company who had caught the

habit of defeat and might break at any moment. They were beaten; we had

beaten them at every point and they knew that they were beaten. Every

man in the French and British lines knew that the Turks were at the

breaking point. We had only to strike while the iron was hot to end them.



As happened afterwards, after the battle of August, we could not strike

while the iron was hot; we had not the men nor the munitions. Had the

fifty thousand men who came there in July and August but been there in

June, our men could have kept on striking. But they were not there in

June, and our victory of the 28th could not be followed up. More than a

month passed before it could be followed up. During that month the Turks

dug themselves new fortresses, brought up new guns, made new stores of

ammunition, and remade their army. Their beaten troops were withdrawn

and replaced by the very pick and flower of the Turkish Empire. When we

attacked again, we found a very different enemy; the iron was cold, we

had to begin again from the beginning.



Thirty-six hours after our June success, at midnight in the night of

June 29-30th, the Turks made a counter attack, not at Cape Helles, where

their men were shaken, but at Anzac, where perhaps they felt our menace

more acutely. A large army of Turks, about 30,000 strong, ordered by

Enver Pasha "to drive the foreigners into the sea or never to look upon

his face again," attacked the Anzac position under cover of the fire of

a great artillery. They were utterly defeated with the loss of about a

quarter of their strength, some 7-8,000 killed and wounded.



All this fighting proved clearly that the Turks, with all their power of

fresh men, their closeness to their reserves, and their superior

positions, could not beat us from what we had secured, nor keep us from

securing more. Our advance into the Peninsula, though slow and paid for

with much life, was sure and becoming less slow. What we had won we had

fought hard for and never ceased to fight hard for, but we had won it

and could hold it, and with increasing speed add to it, and the Turks

knew this as well as we did. But early in May something happened which

had a profound result upon the course of the operations. It is necessary

to write of it at length, if only to show the reader that this

Dardanelles Campaign was not a war in itself, but a part of a war

involving most of Europe and half of Asia, and that, that being so, it

was affected by events in other parts of the war, as deeply as it

affected those parts in turn by its own events.



No one, of the many who spoke to me about the campaign, knew or

understood that the campaign, as planned, was not to be, solely, a

French and English venture, but (in its later stages) a double attack

upon the Turkish power, by ourselves, on the Peninsula and the

Hellespont, and by the Russians, on the shores of the Black Sea. The

double attack, threatening Turkey at the heart, was designed to force

the Turks to divide their strength, and, by causing uneasiness among the

citizens, to keep in and about Constantinople a large army which might

otherwise wreck our Mesopotamian expedition, threaten India and Egypt

and prevent the Grand Duke Nicholas from advancing from the Caucasus on

Erzerum. But as the Polish campaign developed adversely to Russia, it

became clear that it would be impossible for her to give the assistance

she had hoped.



Early in May, Sir Ian Hamilton learned, that his advance, instead of

being a part of a concerted scheme, was to be the only attack upon the

Turks in that quarter, and that he would have to withstand the greater

part of the Turkish army. This did not mean that the Turks could mass an

overwhelming strength against any part of his positions, since in the

narrow Peninsula there is not room for great numbers to manoeuvre; but

it meant that the Turks would have always within easy distance great

reserves of fresh men to take the place of those exhausted, and that

without a correspondingly great reserve we had little chance of decisive

success.



This change in the strategical scheme was made after we were committed

to the venture: it made a profound difference to our position.

Unfortunately we were so deeply engaged in other theatres that it was

impossible to change our plans as swiftly and as profoundly as our

chances. The great reserve could not be sent when it became necessary,

early in May, nor for more than two months. Until it came, it happened,

time after time, that even when we fought and beat back the Turks they

could be reinforced before we could. All through the campaign we fought

them and beat them back, but always, on the day after the battle, they

had a division of fresh men to put in to the defence, while we, who had

suffered more, being the attackers, had but a handful with which to

follow up the success.



People have said, "But you could have kept fresh divisions in reserve as

easily as the Turks. Why did you not send more men, so as to have them

ready to follow up a success?" I could never answer this question. It is

the vital question. The cry for "fifty thousand more men and plenty of

high explosive" went up daily from every trench in Gallipoli, and we

lost the campaign through not sending them in time. On the spot of

course our generals knew that war (like life) consists of a struggle

with disadvantages, and their struggle with these was a memorable one.

Only, when all was done, their situation remained that of the Frank

rearguard in the Song of Roland. In that poem the Franks could and did

beat the Saracens, but the Saracens brought up another army before the

Franks were reinforced. The Franks could and did beat that army, too,

but the Saracens brought up another army before the Franks were

reinforced. The Franks could and did beat that army, too, but then they

were spent and Roland had to sound his horn and Charlemagne would not

come to the summons of the horn, and the heroes were abandoned in the

dolorous pass.





Summer came upon Gallipoli with a blinding heat only comparable to New

York in July. The flowers which had been so gay with beauty in the

Helles fields in April soon wilted to stalks. The great slope of Cape

Helles took on a savage and African look of desolation. The air quivered

over the cracking land. In the blueness of the heat haze the graceful

terrible hills looked even more gentle and beautiful than before; and

one who was there said that "there were little birds that droned, rather

like the English yellow-hammers." With the heat, which was a new

experience to all the young English soldiers there, came a plague of

flies beyond all record and belief. Men ate and drank flies, the filthy

insects were everywhere. The ground in places was so dark with them,

that one could not be sure whether the patches were ground or flies. Our

camps and trenches were kept clean; they were well scavenged daily; but

only a few yards away were the Turk trenches, which were invariably

filthy: there the flies bred undisturbed, perhaps encouraged. There is a

fine modern poem which speaks of the Indian sun in summer as "the

blazing death-star." Men in Gallipoli in the summer of 1915 learned to

curse the sun as an enemy more cruel than the Turk. With the sun and the

plague of flies came the torment of thirst, one of the greatest torments

which life has the power to inflict.



At Cape Helles, in the summer, there was a shortage but no great

scarcity of water, for the Turk wells supplied more than half the army

and less than half the water needed had to be brought from abroad. At

Anzac however there was always a scarcity, for even in the spring not

more than a third of the water needed could be drawn from wells. At

first, water could be found by digging shallow pans in the beach, but

this method failed when the heats began. Two-thirds (or more) of the

water needed at Anzac had always to be brought from abroad, and to bring

this two-thirds regularly and to land it and store it under shell fire

was a difficult task. "When operations were on," as in the August

battle, the difficulty of distribution was added to the other

difficulties, and then indeed want of water brought our troops to

death's door. At Anzac "when operations were on" even in the intensest

heat the average ration of water for all purposes was, perhaps, at most,

a pint and a half, sometimes only a pint. And though this extremity was

as a rule only reached "when operations were on," when there was heavy

fighting, it was then that the need was greatest.



In peace, in comfortable homes, in cool weather, civilised people need

or consume a little less than three pints of liquid in each day. In hot

weather and when doing severe bodily labour they need more; perhaps half

a gallon in the day. Thirst, which most of us know solely as a pleasant

zest to drinking, soon becomes a hardship, then, in an hour, an

obsession, and by high noon a madness, to those who toil in the sun with

nothing to drink. Possibly to most of the many thousands who were in the

Peninsula last summer, the real enemies were not the Turks, but the sun

in Heaven, shaking "the pestilence of his light," and thirst that

withered the heart and cracked the tongue.



Some have said to me, "Yes, but the Turks must have suffered, too, just

as much, in that waterless ground." It is not so. The Turks at Cape

Helles held the wells at Krithia; inland from Anzac they held the wells

near Lonesome Pine and Koja Dere. They had other wells at Maidos, and

Gallipoli. They had always more water than we, and (what is more) the

certainty of it. Most of them came from lands with little water and

great heat, ten (or more) degrees further to the south than any part of

England. Heat and thirst were old enemies to them, they were tempered to

them. Our men had to serve an apprenticeship to them, and pay for what

they learned in bodily hardship. Not that our men minded hardship; they

did not; they were volunteers who had chosen their fate and were there

of their own choice, and no army in the world has ever faced suffering

more cheerily. But this hardship of thirst was a weight upon them,

throughout the summer; like malaria it did not kill, but it lowered all

vitality. It halved the possible effort of men always too few for the

work in hand. Let it now double the honour paid to them.





In the sandy soil of the Peninsula were many minute amoebæ, which played

their part in the summer suffering. In the winds of the great droughts

of July and August the dust blew about our positions like smoke from

burning hills. It fell into food and water and was eaten and drunk (like

the flies) at each meal. Within the human body the amoebæ of the sand

set up symptoms like those of dysentery, as a rule slightly less severe

than the true dysentery of camps. After July, nearly every man in our

army in Gallipoli, suffered from this evil. Like the thirst, it lowered

more vitality than it destroyed; many died, it is true, but then nearly

all were ill: it was the universal sickness not the occasional death

that mattered.



Pass now to the position of affairs at the end of June. We were left to

our own strength in this struggle, the Turks were shaken: it was vital

to our chances to attack again before they recovered. We had not the men

to attack again, but they were coming and were due in a few weeks' time.

While they were on their way, the question, how to use them, was

considered.



As the army's task was to help the fleet through the Narrows it had to

operate in the southwestern portion of the Peninsula. Further progress

against Achi Baba in the Helles sector was hardly possible; for the

Turks had added too greatly to their trenches there since the attacks of

April and May. Operations on the Asian coast were hardly possible

without a second army; operations against Bulair were not likely to help

the fleet. Operations in the Anzac sector offered better chances of

success. It was hoped that a thrust southeastward from Anzac might bring

our men across to the Narrows or to the top of the ridges which command

the road to Constantinople. It was reasonable to think that such a

thrust, backed up by a new landing in force to the north, in Suvla Bay,

might turn the Turkish right and destroy it. If the men at Helles

attacked, to contain the Turks in the south, and the men on the right of

Anzac attacked, to hold the Turks at Anzac, it was possible that men on

the left of Anzac, backed up by a new force marching from Suvla, might

give a decisive blow. The Turk position on the Peninsula roughly formed

a letter L. The plan (as it shaped) was to attack the horizontal line at

Cape Helles, press the centre of the vertical line at Anzac, and bend

back, crumple and break the top of the vertical line between the Anzac

position and Suvla. At the same time, Suvla Bay was to be seized and

prepared as a harbour at which supplies might be landed, even in the

stormy season.



 [Illustration: View of Anzac, looking towards Suvla]



Some soldier has said, that "the simple thing is the difficult thing."

The idea seems simple to us, because the difficulty has been cleared

away for us by another person's hard thought. Such a scheme of battle,

difficult to think out in the strain of holding on and under the

temptation to go slowly, improving what was held, was also difficult to

execute. Very few of the great battles of history, not even those in

Russia, in Manchuria, and in the Virginian Wilderness have been fought

on such difficult ground, under such difficult conditions.



The chosen battlefield (the southwestern end of the Peninsula) has

already been described; the greater part of it consists of the Cape

Helles and Anzac positions, but the vital or decisive point, where, if

all went well, the Turk right was to be bent back, broken and routed,

lies to the north of Anzac on the spurs and outlying bastions of Sari

Bair.



Suvla Bay, where the new landing was to take place, lies three miles to

the north of Anzac. It is a broad, rather shallow semicircular bay (open

to the west and southwest) with a partly practicable beach, some of it

(the southern part) fairly flat and sandy, the rest steepish and rocky

though broken by creeks. Above it, one on the north, one on the south

horn of the bay, rise two small low knolls or hillocks known as Ghazi

Baba and Lala Baba, the latter a clearly marked tactical feature. To the

north, beyond the horn of the bay, the coast is high, steep-to sandy

cliff, broken with gullies and washed by deep water, but to the south,

all the way to Anzac the coast is a flat, narrow, almost straight sweep

of sandy shore shutting a salt marsh and a couple of miles of lowland

from the sea; it is a lagoon beach of the common type, with the usual

feature of shallow water in the sea that washes it. The northern half of

this beach is known as Beach C, the southern as Beach B.



 [Illustration: Map No. 3

 _Stanford's Geog'l Estb't London._]



Viewed from the sea, the coast chosen for the new landing seems

comparatively flat and gentle, seemingly, though not really, easy to

land upon, but with no good military position near it. It looks as

though once, long ago, the sea had thrust far inland there, in a big bay

or harbour stretching from the high ground to the north of Suvla to the

left of the Anzac position. This bay, if it ever existed, must have been

four miles long and four miles across, a very noble space of water,

ringed by big, broken, precipitous hills, into which it thrust in

innumerable creeks and combes. Then (possibly) in the course of ages,

silt brought down by the torrents choked the bay, and pushed the sea

further and further back, till nothing remained of the harbour but the

existing Suvla Bay and the salt marsh (dry in summer). The hills ringing

Suvla Bay and this flat or slightly rising expanse which may once have

been a part of it, stand (to the fancy) like a rank that has beaten back

an attack. They are high and proud to the north, they stand in groups in

the centre, but to the south, where they link on to the broken cliffs of

the Anzac position, they are heaped in tumbling precipitous disordered

bulges of hill, cut by every kind of cleft and crumpled into every kind

of fold, as though the dry land had there been put to it to keep out the

sea. These hills are the scene of the bitterest fighting of the battle.



Although these hills in the Suvla district stand in a rank, yet in the

centre of the rank there are two gaps where the ancient harbour of our

fancy thrust creeks far inland. These gaps or creeks open a little to

the south of the north and south limits of Suvla Bay. They are watered,

cultivated valleys with roads or tracks in them. In the northern valley

is a village of some sixty houses called Anafarta Sagir, or Little

Anafarta. In the southern valley is a rather larger village of some

ninety houses called Biyuk Anafarta, or Great Anafarta. The valleys are

called after these villages.



Between these valleys is a big blunt-headed jut or promontory of higher

ground, which thrusts out towards the bay. At the Suvla end of this jut,

about 1,000 yards from the bight of the Salt Marsh, it shoots up in

three peaks or top knots two of them united in the lump called Chocolate

Hill, the other known as Scimitar Hill or Hill 70; all, roughly, 150

feet high. About a mile directly inland from Chocolate Hill is a peak of

about twice the height, called Ismail Oglu Tepe, an abrupt and savage

heap of cliff, dented with chasms, harshly scarped at the top, and

covered with dense thorn scrub. This hill is the southernmost feature in

the northern half of the battlefield. The valley of Great Anafarta,

which runs east and west below it, cuts the battlefield in two.



The southern side of the Great Anafarta valley is just that

disarrangement of precipitous bulged hill which rises and falls in

crags, peaks and gulleys all the way from the valley to Anzac. Few parts

of the earth can be more broken and disjointed than this mass of

precipice, combes and ravines. A savage climate has dealt with it since

the beginning of time, with great heats, frosts and torrents. It is not

so much a ridge or chain of hills as the manifold outlying bastions and

buttresses of Sari Bair, from which they are built out in craggy bulges

parted by ravines. It may be said that Sari Bair begins at Gaba Tepe (to

the south of the Anzac position) and stretches thence northeasterly

towards Great Anafarta in a rolling and confused five miles of hill that

has all the features of a mountain. It is not high. Its peaks range from

about 250 to 600 feet; its chief peak (Koja Chemen Tepe) is a little

more than 900 feet. Nearly all of it is trackless, waterless and

confused, densely covered with scrub (sometimes with forest) littered

with rocks, an untamed savage country. The southwestern half of it made

the Anzac position, the northeastern and higher half was the prize to be

fought for.



It is the watershed of that part of the Peninsula. The gulleys on its

south side drain down to the Hellespont; those upon its north side drain

to the flat land which may once have been submerged as a part of Suvla

Bay. These northern gulleys are great savage irregular gashes or glens

running westerly or northwesterly from the hill bastions. Three of them,

the three nearest to the northern end of the Anzac position, may be

mentioned by name: Sazli Beit Dere, Chailak Dere, and Aghyl Dere. The

word Dere means watercourse; but all three were bone dry in August when

the battle was fought. It must be remembered that in the trackless

Peninsula a watercourse of this kind is the nearest approach to a road,

and (to a military force) the nearest approach to a covered way. All

these three Deres lead up the heart of the hills to those highlands of

Sari Bair where we wished to plant ourselves. From the top of Sari Bair

one can look down on the whole Turkish position facing Anzac, and see

that position not only dominated but turned and taken in reverse. One

can see (only three miles away) the only road to Constantinople, and

(five miles away) the little port of Maidos near the Narrows. To us the

taking of Sari Bair meant the closing of that road to the passing of

Turk reinforcements, and the opening of the Narrows to the fleet. It

meant victory, and the beginning of the end of this great war, with home

and leisure for life again, and all that peace means. Knowing this, our

soldiers made a great struggle for Sari Bair, but Fate turned the lot

against them. Sari was not to be an English hill, though the flowers on

her sides will grow out of English dust forever. Those who lie there

thought, as they fell, that over their bodies our race would pass to

victory. It may be that their spirits linger there at this moment,

waiting for the English bugles and the English singing, and the sound of

the English ships passing up the Hellespont.



Among her tumble of hills, from the Anzac position to Great Anafarta,

Sari Bair thrusts out several knolls, peaks and commanding heights.

Within the Anzac position, is the little plateau of Lone or Lonesome

Pine to be described later. Further to the northeast are the heights

known as Baby 700 and Battleship Hill, and beyond these, still further

to the northeast, the steep peak of Chunuk Bair. All of these before

this battle were held by the Turks, whose trenches defended them. Lone

Pine is about 400 feet high, the others rather more, slowly rising, as

they go northeast, but keeping to about the height of the English

Chilterns. Chunuk Bair, the highest of these, is about 750 feet. Beyond

Chunuk, half-a-mile further to the northeast, is Hill Q, and beyond Hill

Q a very steep deep gulley, above which rises the beautiful peak, the

summit of Sari, known as Koja Chemen Tepe. One or two Irish hills in the

wilder parts of Antrim are like this peak, though less fleeced with

brush. In height, as I have said, it is a little more than 900 feet, or

about the height of our Bredon Hill. One point about it may be noted. It

thrusts out a great spur or claw for rather more than a mile due north;

this spur, which is much gullied, is called Abd-el-Rahman Bair.



For the moment, Chunuk Bair is the most important point to remember,

because--



(a) It was the extreme right of the prepared Turk position.



(b) The three Deres mentioned a couple of pages back have their sources

at its foot and start there, like three roads starting from the walls of

a city on their way to the sea. They lead past the hills known as Table

Top and Rhododendron Spur. Close to their beginnings at the foot of

Chunuk is a building known as The Farm, round which the fighting was

very fierce.



The "idea" or purpose of the battle was "to endeavour to seize a

position across the Gallipoli Peninsular from Gaba Tep to Maidos, with a

protected line of supply from Suvla Bay."



The plan of the attack was, that a strong force in Anzac should

endeavour to throw back the right wing of the Turks, drive them south

towards Kilid Bahr and thus secure a position commanding the narrow part

of the Peninsula.



Meanwhile a large body of troops should secure Suvla, and another large

body, landing at Suvla, should clear away any Turkish forces on the

hills between the Anafarta valleys, and then help the attacking force

from Anzac by storming Sari Bair from the north and west.



The 6th of August was fixed for the first day of the attack from Anzac;

the landing at Suvla was to take place during the dark hours of the

night of the 6th-7th. "The 6th was both the earliest and the latest date

possible for the battle, the earliest, because it was the first by which

the main part of the reinforcements would be ready, the latest, because

of the moon." Both in the preparation and the surprise of this attack

dark nights were essential.



 [Illustration: A "long focus" view taken over the top of our trenches

 at Anzac]



Sir Ian Hamilton's Despatch (reprinted from the London _Gazette_ of

Tuesday, the 4th January, 1916) shows that this battle of the 6th-10th

August was perhaps the strangest and most difficult battle ever planned

by mortal general. It was to be a triple battle, fought by three

separated armies, not in direct communication with each other. There was

no place from which the battle, as a whole, could be controlled, nearer

than the island of Imbros, (fourteen miles from any part of the

Peninsula) to which telegraphic cables led from Anzac and Cape Helles.

The left wing of our army, designed for the landing at Suvla, was not

only not landed, when the battle began, but not concentrated. There was

no adjacent subsidiary base big enough (or nearly big enough) to hold

it. "On the day before the battle, part were at Imbros, part at Mudros,

and part at Mitylene ... separated respectively by 14, 60, and 120 miles

of sea from the arena into which they were simultaneously to appear."

The vital part of the fight was to be fought by troops from Anzac. The

Anzac position was an open book to every Turk aeroplane and every

observer on Sari Bair. The reinforcements for this part of the battle

had to be landed in the dark, some days before the battle, and kept

hidden underground, during daylight, so that the Turks should not see

them and suspect what was being planned.



In all wars, but especially in modern wars, great tactical combinations

have been betrayed by very little things. In war, as in life, the

unusual thing, however little, betrays the unusual thing, however great.

An odd bit of paper round some cigars betrayed the hopes of the American

Secession, some litter in the sea told Nelson where the French fleet

was, one man rising up in the grass by a roadside saved the wealth of

Peru from the hands of Drake. The Turks were always expecting an attack

from Anzac. It is not too much to say that they searched the Anzac

position hourly for the certain signs of an attack, reinforcements and

supplies. They had not even to search the whole position for these

signs, since there was only one place (towards Fisherman's Hut) where

they could be put. If they had suspected that men and stores were being

landed, they would have guessed at once, that a thrust was to be made,

and our attacks upon their flanks would have met with a prepared defence.



 [Illustration: Australians at work at Anzac two days before the

 evacuation took place]



It was vital to our chance of success that nothing unusual, however

little, should be visible in Anzac from the Turk positions during the

days before the battle. One man staring up at an aeroplane would have

been evidence enough to a quick observer that there was a new-comer on

the scene. One new water tank, one new gun, one mule not yet quiet from

the shock of landing, might have betrayed all the adventure. Very nearly

thirty thousand men, one whole Division and one Brigade of English

soldiers, and a Brigade of Gurkhas, with their guns and stores, had to

be landed unobserved and hidden.



There was only one place in which they could be hidden, and that was

under the ground. The Australians had to dig hiding places for them

before they came.



In this war of digging, the daily life in the trenches gives digging

enough to every soldier. Men dig daily even if they do not fight. At

Anzac in July the Australians had a double share of digging, their daily

share in the front lines, and, when that was finished, their nightly

share, preparing cover for the new troops. During the nights of the

latter half of July the Australians at Anzac dug, roofed and covered not

less than twenty miles of dugouts. All of this work was done in their

sleep time, after the normal day's work of fighting, digging and

carrying up stores. Besides digging these hiding places they carried up,

fixed, hid, and filled the water tanks which were to supply the

newcomers.



 [Illustration: A boatload of British troops leaving the S.S. _Nile_ for

 one of the landing beaches]



On the night of the 3rd of August when the landing of the new men began,

the work was doubled. Everybody who could be spared from the front

trenches went to the piers to help to land, carry inland and hide the

guns, stores, carts and animals coming ashore. The nights, though

lengthening, were still summer nights. There were seven hours of

semi-darkness in which to cover up all traces of what came ashore. The

newcomers landed at the rate of about 1,500 an hour, during the nights

of the 3rd, 4th and 5th of August. During those nights, the Australians

landed, carried inland and hid not less than one thousand tons of

shells, cartridges and food, some hundreds of horses and mules, many

guns, and two or three hundred water-carts and ammunition carts. All

night-long, for those three nights, the Australians worked like

schoolboys. Often, towards dawn, it was a race against time, but always

at dawn, the night's tally of new troops were in their billets, the new

stores were under ground and the new horses hidden. When the morning

aeroplanes came over, their observers saw nothing unusual in any part of

Anzac. The half-naked men were going up and down the gullies, the wholly

naked men were bathing in the sea, everything else was as it had always

been, nor were any transports on the coast. For those three nights

nearly all the Australians at Anzac gave up most of their sleep. They

had begun the work by digging the cover, they took a personal pride and

pleasure in playing the game of cache-cache to the end.



It is difficult to praise a feat of the kind and still more difficult to

make people understand what the work meant. Those smiling and glorious

young giants thought little of it. They loved their chiefs and they

liked the fun, and when praised for it looked away with a grin. The

labour of the task can only be felt by those who have done hard manual

work in hot climates. Digging is one of the hardest kinds of work, even

when done in a garden with a fork. When done in a trench with a pick and

shovel it is as hard work as threshing with a flail. Carrying heavy

weights over uneven ground is harder work still; and to do either of

these things on a salt-meat diet with a scanty allowance of water, is

very, very hard; but to do them at night after a hard day's work,

instead of sleeping, is hardest of all; even farm-labourers would

collapse and sailors mutiny when asked to do this last. It may be said

that no one could have done this labour, but splendid young men

splendidly encouraged to do their best. Many of these same young men who

had toiled thus almost without sleep for three days and nights, fell in

with the others and fought all through the battle.



But all this preparation was a setting of precedents and the doing of

something new to war. Never before have 25,000 men been kept buried

under an enemy's eye until the hour for the attack. Never before have

two Divisions of all arms been brought up punctually, by ship, over many

miles of sea, from different ports, to land under fire, at an appointed

time, to fulfil a great tactical scheme.



But all these difficulties were as nothing to the difficulty of making

sure that the men fighting in the blinding heat of a Gallipoli August

should have enough water to drink. Eighty tons of water a day does not

seem very much. It had only to be brought five hundred miles, which does

not seem very far, to those who in happy peace can telephone for 80 tons

of anything to be sent five hundred miles to anywhere. But in war,

weight, distance and time become terrible and tragic things, involving

the lives of armies. The water supply of that far battlefield,

indifferent as it was, at the best, was a triumph of resolve and skill

unequalled yet in war. It is said that Wellington boasted that, while

Napoleon could handle men, he, Wellington, could feed them. Our naval

officers can truly say that, while Sir Ian Hamilton can handle men, they

can give them drink.



As to the enemy before the battle, it was estimated that (apart from the

great strategical reserves within 30 or 40 miles) there were 30,000

Turks in the vital part of the battlefield, to the north of Kilid Bahr.

Twelve thousand of these were in the trenches opposite Anzac; most of

the rest in the villages two or three miles to the south and southeast

of Sari Bair. Three battalions were in the Anafarta villages, one

battalion was entrenched on Ismail Oglu Tepe; small outposts held the

two Baba hillocks on the bay, and the land north of the bay was

patrolled by mounted gendarmerie. These scattered troops on the Turk

right had guns with them; it was not known how many. The beach of Suvla

was known to be mined.



August began with calm weather. The scattered regiments of the Divisions

for Suvla, after some weeks of hard exercise ashore, were sent on board

their transports. At a little before four o'clock on the afternoon of

the 6th August, the 29th Division began the battle by an assault on the

Turk positions below Krithia.









V



Roland put the horn to his mouth, gripped it hard and with great heart

blew it. The hills were high and the sound went very far: thirty leagues

wide they heard it echo. Charles heard it and all his comrades; so the

King said, "Our men are fighting." Count Guenes answered: "If any other

said that, I should call him a liar."



Count Roland in pain and woe and great weakness blew his horn. The

bright blood was running from his mouth and the temples of his brains

were broken. But the noise of the horn was very great. Charles heard it

as he was passing at the ports; Naimes heard it, the Franks listened to

it. So the King said, "I hear the horn of Roland; he would never sound

it if he were not fighting." Guenes answered, "There is no fighting. You

are old and white and hoary. You are like a child when you say such

things."



Count Roland's mouth was bleeding; the temples of his brain were broken.

He blew his horn in weakness and pain. Charles heard it and his Franks

heard it. So the King said: "That horn has long breath." Duke Naimes

answered, "Roland is in trouble. He is fighting, on my conscience. Arm

yourself. Cry your war-cry. Help the men of your house. You hear plainly

that Roland is in trouble."



The Emperor made sound his horns.... All the barons of the army mounted

their chargers. But what use was that? They had delayed too long. What

use was that? It was worth nothing; they had stayed too long; they could

not be in time.



Then Roland said, "Here we shall receive martyrdom, and now I know well

that we have but a moment to live. But may all be thieves who do not

sell themselves dearly first. Strike, knights, with your bright swords;

so change your deaths and lives, that sweet France be not shamed by us.

When Charles comes into this field he shall see such discipline upon the

Saracens that he shall not fail to bless us."



 _The Song of Roland._





The Cape Helles attack, designed to keep the Turks to the south of Kilid

Bahr from reinforcing those near Anzac, became a very desperate

struggle. The Turk trenches there were full of men, for the Turks had

been preparing a strong attack upon ourselves, which we forestalled by a

few hours. The severe fighting lasted for a week along the whole Cape

Helles front, but it was especially bloody and terrible in the centre,

in a vineyard to the west of the Krithia road. It has often happened in

war, that some stubbornness in attack or defence has roused the same

quality in the opposer, till the honour of the armies seems pledged to

the taking or holding of one patch of ground, perhaps not vital to the

battle. It may be that in war one resolute soul can bind the excited

minds of multitudes in a kind of bloody mesmerism; but these strange

things are not studied as they should be. Near Krithia, the battle,

which began as a containing attack, a minor part of a great scheme,

became a furious week-long fight for this vineyard, a little patch of

ground "200 yards long by 100 yards broad."



From the 6th-13th of August, the fight for this vineyard never ceased.

Our Lancashire regiments won most of it at the first assault on the 6th.

For the rest of the week they held it against all that the Turks could

bring against them. It was not a battle in the military textbook sense:

it was a fight man to man, between two enemies whose blood was up. It

was a week-long cursing and killing scrimmage, the men lying down to

fire and rising up to fight with the bayonet, literally all day long,

day after day, the two sides within easy bombing distance all the time.

The Turks lost some thousands of men in their attacks upon this vineyard

after a week of fighting, they rushed it in a night attack, were soon

bombed out of it and then gave up the struggle for it. This bitter

fighting not only kept the Turks at Cape Helles from reinforcing those

at Anzac; it caused important Turk reinforcements to be sent to the

Helles sector.



Less than an hour after the 29th Division began the containing battle at

Krithia, the Australians at Anzac began theirs. This, the attack on the

Turk fort at Lone Pine, in the southern half of the Anzac front, was

designed to keep large bodies of Turks from reinforcing their right, on

Sari Bair, where the decisive blow was to be struck. It was a secondary

operation, not the main thrust, but it was in itself important, since to

those at Anzac, the hill of Lone Pine was the gate into the narrowest

part of the Peninsula, and through that gate, as the Turks very well

knew, a rush might be made from Anzac upon Maidos and the Narrows. Such

a thrust from Lone Pine, turning all the Turkish works on the range of

Sari Bair, was what the Turks expected and feared from us. They had

shewn us as much, quite plainly, all through the summer. Any movement,

feint, or demonstration against Lone Pine, brought up their reserves at

once. It was the sensitive spot on their not too strong left wing. If we

won through there, we had their main water supply as an immediate prize

and no other position in front of us from which we could be held. Any

strong attack there was therefore certain to contain fully half a

division of the enemy.



The hill of Lone or Lonesome Pine is a little plateau less than 400 feet

high running N.W. S.E. and measuring perhaps 250 yards long by 200

across. On its southwestern side it drops down in gullies to a col or

ridge, known as Pine Ridge, which gradually declines away to the low

ground near Gaba Tepe. On its northeastern side it joins the high ground

known as Johnston's Jolly, which was, alas, neither jolly nor

Johnston's, but a strong part of the Turk position.



We already held a little of the Lone Pine Plateau; our trenches bulged

out into it in a convexity or salient known as The Pimple, but the Turks

held the greater part, and their trenches curved out the other way, in a

mouth, concavity or trap opening towards The Pimple as though ready to

swallow it. The opposing lines of trenches ran from north to south

across the plateau, with from 50 to 100 yards between them. Both to the

north and south of the plateau are deep gullies. Just beyond these

gullies Turk trenches were so placed that the machine guns in them could

sweep the whole plateau. The space between the Australian and Turk lines

was fairly level hilltop, covered with thyme and short scrub.



For some days before the 6th August the warships had been shelling the

Turk position on Lone Pine to knock away the barbed wire in front of it.

On the 5th, the Australian brigade, told off for the attack, sharpened

bayonets and prepared their distinguishing marks of white bands for the

left arms and white patches for the backs of their right shoulders. In

the afternoon of the 6th the shelling by the ships became more intense;

at half-past four it quickened to a very heavy fire; at exactly

half-past five it stopped suddenly, "the three short whistle blasts

sounded and were taken up along the line, our men cleared the parapet,"

in two waves on a front of about 160 yards, "and attacked with vigour."

The hill top over which they charged was in a night of smoke and dust

from the explosions of the shells, and into that night, already singing

with enemy bullets, the Australians disappeared. They had not gone

twenty yards before all that dark and blazing hill top was filled with

explosion and flying missiles from every enemy gun. One speaks of a hail

of bullets, but no hail is like fire, no hail in a form of death crying

aloud a note of death, no hail screams as it strikes a stone, or stops a

strong man in his stride. Across that kind of hail the Australians

charged on Lone Pine. "It was a grim kind of steeplechase," said one,

"but we meant to get to Koja Dere." They reached the crumpled wire of

the entanglement, and got through it to the parapet of the Turk trench,

where they were held up. Those behind them at The Pimple, peering

through the darkness, to see if any had survived the rush, saw figures

on the parados of the enemy's trench, and wondered what was happening.

They sent forward the third wave, with one full company carrying picks

and shovels, to make good what was won. The men of this third wave found

what was happening.



The Turkish front line trench was not, like most trenches, an open ditch

into which men could jump, but covered over along nearly all its length

with blinders and beams of pinewood, heaped with sandbags, and in some

places with a couple of feet of earth. Under this cover the Turks fired

at our men through loopholes, often with their rifles touching their

victims. Most of the Australians, after heaving in vain to get these

blinders up, under a fire that grew hotter every instant, crossed them,

got into the open communication trenches in the rear of the Turk line,

and attacked through them; but some, working together, hove up a blinder

or two, and down the gaps so made those brave men dropped themselves, to

a bayonet fight like a rat fight in a sewer, with an enemy whom they

could hardly see, in a narrow dark gash in the earth where they were, at

first, as one to five or seven to ten.



More and more men dropped down or rushed in from the rear; the Turks so

penned in, fought hard, but could not beat back the attack. They

surrendered and were disarmed. The survivors were at least as many as

their captors, who had too much to do at that time to send them to the

rear, even if there had been a safe road by which to send them. They

were jammed up there in the trenches with the Australians, packed man to

man, suffering from their friends' fire and getting in the way.



 [Illustration: Inside an Australian trench, showing a man using a

 periscope rifle and another man keeping watch by means of a periscope]



The first thing to be done was to block up the communication trenches

against the Turkish counter attack. Every man carried a couple of

sandbags, and with these, breastworks and walls were built. Their work

was done in a narrow dark sweltering tunnel, heaped with corpses and

wounded and crowded with prisoners who might at any moment have risen.

Already the Turks had begun their counter attacks. At every other moment

a little rush of Turks came up the communication trenches, flung their

bombs in the workers' faces, and were bayoneted as they threw. The

trenches curved and zigzagged in the earth; the men in one section could

neither see nor hear what the men in the nearest sections were doing.

What went on under the ground there in the making good of those trenches

will never be known. From half-past five till midnight every section of

the line was searched by bombs and bullets, by stink pots, and sticks of

dynamite, by gas-bombs and a falling tumult of shell and shrapnel, which

only ceased to let some rush of Turks attack, with knives, grenades and

bayonets, hand to hand and body to body in a blackness like the darkness

of a mine. At midnight the wounded were lying all over the trenches, the

enemy dead were so thick that our men had to walk on them, and bombs

were falling in such numbers that every foot in those galleries was

stuck with human flesh. No man slept that night. At half-past seven next

morning (the 7th) a small quantity of bread and tea was rushed across

the plateau to the fighters, who had more than earned their breakfast.

Turk shell had by this time blown up some of the head-cover and some of

the new communication trenches were still only a few feet deep. A

Colonel passing along one of them told an officer that his section of

the trench was too shallow. Half-an-hour later, in passing back, he

found the officer and three men blown to pieces by a shell; in a few

minutes more he was himself killed. At noon the bombing became so severe

that some sections of the line were held only by one or two wounded men.

At one o'clock the enemy attacked furiously with bomb and bayonet, in

great force. They came on in a mass, in wave after wave, shoulder to

shoulder, heads down, shouting the name of God. They rushed across the

plateau, jumped into the trenches and were mixed up with our men in a

hand-to-hand fight, which lasted for five hours. Not many of them could

join in the fight at one time, and not many of them went back to the

Turk lines; but they killed many of our men, and when their last assault

failed our prize was very weakly held. At half-past seven the survivors

received a cheering (and truthful) message from the Brigadier "that no

fighters can surpass Australians," and almost with the message came

another Turk assault begun by bomb and shell and rifle fire, and

followed by savage rushes with the bayonet, one of which got in, and did

much slaughter. No man slept that night; the fight hardly slackened all

through the night; at dawn the dead were lying three deep in every part

of the line. Bombs fell every minute in some section of the line, and

where the wide Turk trenches had been blasted open they were very

destructive. The men were "extremely tired but determined to hold on."

They did hold on.



They held on for the next five days and nights, till Lone Pine was ours

past question. For those five days and nights the fight for Lone Pine

was one long personal scrimmage in the midst of explosion. For those

five days and nights the Australians lived and ate and slept in that

gallery of the mine of death, in a half darkness lit by great glares, in

filth, heat and corpses, among rotting and dying and mutilated men, with

death blasting at the doors only a few feet away, and intense and bloody

fighting, hand to hand, with bombs, bayonets and knives, for hours

together by night and day. When the Turks gave up the struggle the dead

were five to the yard in that line or works; they were heaped in a kind

of double wall all along the sides of the trench: most of them were

bodies of Turks, but among them were one quarter of the total force

which ran out from The Pimple on the evening of the 6th.



Like the fight for the vineyard near Krithia, this fight for Lone Pine

kept large numbers of Turks from the vital part of the battlefield.



When the sun set upon this battle at Lone Pine on that first evening of

the 6th of August, many thousands of brave men fell in for the main

battle, which was to strew their glorious bodies in the chasms of the

Sari Bair, where none but the crows would ever find them. They fell in

at the appointed places in four columns, two to guard the flanks, two to

attack. One attacking column, guarded and helped by the column on its

right, was to move up the Chailak and Sazli Beit Deres, to the storm of

Chunuk Bair, the other attacking column, guarded and helped by the

column on its left, was to move up the Aghyl Dere to the storm of Sari's

peak of Koja Chemen Tepe. The outermost, left, guarding column (though

it did not know it) was to link up with the force soon to land at Suvla.



They were going upon a night attack in a country known to be a

wilderness with neither water nor way in it. They had neither light nor

guide, nor any exact knowledge of where the darkness would burst into a

blaze from the Turk fire. Many armies have gone out into the darkness of

a night adventure, but what army has gone out like this, from the hiding

places on a beach to the heart of unknown hills, to wander up crags

under fire, to storm a fortress in the dawn? Even in Manchuria, there

were roads and the traces and the comforts of man. In this savagery,

there was nothing, but the certainty of desolation, where the wounded

would lie until they died and the dead be never buried.



Until this campaign, the storm of Badajos was the most desperate duty

ever given to British soldiers. The men in the forlorn hope of that

storm marched to their position to the sound of fifes "which filled the

heart with a melting sweetness" and tuned that rough company to a kind

of sacred devotion. No music played away the brave men from Anzac. They

answered to their names in the dark, and moved off to take position for

what they had to do. Men of many races were banded together there. There

were Australians, English, Indians, Maoris and New Zealanders, made one

by devotion to a cause, and all willing to die that so their comrades

might see the dawn make a steel streak of the Hellespont from the peaked

hill now black against the stars. Soon they had turned their back on

friendly little Anzac and the lights in the gullies and were stepping

out with the sea upon their left and the hills of their destiny upon

their right, and the shells, starlights and battle of Lone Pine far away

behind them. Before 9 A.M. the Right Covering Column (of New Zealanders)

was in position ready to open up the Sazli Beit and Chailak Deres, to

their brothers who were to storm Chunuk. Half an hour later, cunningly

backed by the guns of the destroyer _Colne_, they rushed the Turk

position, routed the garrison and its supports, and took the fort known

as Old No. 3 Post. It was an immensely strong position, protected by

barbed wire, shielded by shell-proof head cover, and mined in front

"with 28 mines electrically connected to a first-rate firing apparatus

within." Sed nisi Dominus.



This success opened up the Sazli Dere for nearly half of its length.



Inland from Old No. 3 Post, and some 700 yards from it is a crag or

precipice which looks like a round table, with a top projecting beyond

its legs. This crag, known to our men as Table Top, is a hill which few

would climb for pleasure. Nearly all the last 100 feet of the peak is

precipice, such as no mountaineer would willingly climb without clear

daylight and every possible precaution. It is a sort of skull of rock

fallen down upon its body of rock, and the great rocky ribs heave out

with gullies between them. The table-top, or plateau-summit, was

strongly entrenched and held by the Turks, whose communication trenches

ran down the back of the hill to Rhododendron Spur.



While their comrades were rushing Old No. 3 Post, a party of New

Zealanders marched to storm this natural fortress. The muscular part of

the feat may be likened to the climbing of the Welsh Glyddyrs, the Irish

Lurig, or the craggier parts of the American Palisades, in a moonless

midnight, under a load of not less than thirty pounds. But the muscular

effort was made much greater by the roughness of the unknown approaches,

which led over glidders of loose stones into the densest of short,

thick, intensely thorny scrub. The New Zealanders advanced under fire

through this scrub, went up the rocks in a spirit which no crag could

daunt, reached the Table-top, rushed the Turk trenches, killed some

Turks of the garrison and captured the rest with all their stores.



This success opened up the remainder of the Sazli Beit Dere.



While these attacks were progressing, the remainder of the Right

Covering Column marched north to the Chailak Dere. A large body crossed

this Dere and marched on, but the rest turned up the Dere and soon came

to a barbed wire entanglement which blocked the ravine. They had met the

Turks' barbed wire before, on Anzac Day, and had won through it, but

this wire in the Dere was new to their experience; it was meant rather

as a permanent work than as an obstruction. It was secured to great

balks or blinders of pine, six or eight feet high, which stood in a rank

twenty or thirty deep right across the ravine. The wire which crossed

and criss-crossed between these balks was as thick as a man's thumb and

profusely barbed. Beyond it lay a flanking trench, held by a strong

outpost of Turks, who at once opened fire. This, though not unexpected,

was a difficult barrier to come upon in the darkness of a summer night,

and here, as before, at the landing of the Worcester Regiment at W

beach, men went forward quietly, without weapons, to cut the wire for

the others. They were shot down, but others took their places, though

the Turks, thirty steps away on the other side of the gulley, had only

to hold their rifles steady and pull their triggers to destroy them.

This holding up in the darkness by an unseen hidden enemy and an

obstacle which needed high explosive shell in quantity caused heavy loss

and great delay. For a time there was no getting through; but then with

the most desperate courage and devotion, a party of engineers cleared

the obstacle, the Turks were routed, and a path made for the attackers.



This success opened up the mouth of the Chailak Dere.



Meanwhile those who had marched across this Dere and gone on towards

Suvla, swung round to the right to clear the Turks from Bauchop's Hill,

which overlooks the Chailak Dere from the north. Bauchop's Hill (a rough

country even for Gallipoli) is cleft by not less than twenty great

gullies, most of them forked, precipitous, overgrown and heaped with

rocks. The New Zealanders scrambled up it from the north, got into a

maze of trenches, not strongly held, beat the Turks out of them,

wandered south across the neck or ridge of the hill, discovering Turk

trenches by their fire, and at last secured the whole hill.



This success, besides securing the Chailak Dere from any assault from

the north, secured the south flank of the Aghyl Dere beyond it.



Meanwhile the Left Covering Column (mainly Welshmen) which for some time

had halted at Old No. 3 Post, waiting for the sound of battle to tell

them that the Turks on Bauchop's Hill were engaged, marched boldly on

the Aghyl Dere, crossed it in a rush, taking every Turk trench in the

way, then stormed the Turk outpost on Damakjelik Bair, going on from

trench to trench in the dark guided by the flashes of the rifles, till

the whole hill was theirs. This success opened up the Aghyl Dere to the

attacking column.



As the troops drew their breath in the still night on the little hill

which they had won, they heard about three miles away a noise of battle

on the seacoast to their left. This noise was not the nightly "hate" of

the monitors and destroyers but an irregular and growing rifle fire.

This, though they did not know it, was the beginning of the landing of

the new Divisions, with their 30,000 men, at Suvla Bay.



For the moment, Suvla was not the important point in the battle. The

three Deres were the important points, for up the three Deres, now

cleared of Turks, our Attacking Columns were advancing to the assault.



By this time however, the Turks were roused throughout their line. All

the Anzac position from Tasmania Post to Table Top was a blaze of battle

to contain them before our trenches, but they knew now that their right

was threatened and their reserves were hurrying out to meet us before we

had gained the crests. Our Right Attacking Column (of English and New

Zealand troops) went up the Sazli Beit and Chailak Deres, deployed

beyond Table Top and stormed Rhododendron Spur, fighting for their lives

every inch of the way. The Left Column (mainly Indians and Australians)

pressed up the Aghyl, into the stony clefts of its upper forks, and so,

by rock, jungle, heartbreaking cliff and fissure to the attack of Hill

Q, and the lower slopes of Sari. They, too, were fighting for their

lives. Their advance was across a scrub peopled now by little clumps of

marksmen firing from hiding. When they deployed out of the Deres, to

take up their line of battle, they linked up with the Right Assaulting

Column, and formed with them a front of about a mile, stretching from

the old Anzac position to within a mile of the crests which were the

prize. By this time the night was over, day was breaking, the Turks were

in force, and our attacking columns much exhausted, but there was still

breath for a last effort. Now, with the breath, came a quick

encouragement, for looking down from their hillsides they could see

Suvla Bay full of ships, the moving marks of boats, dotted specks of men

on the sandhills, and more ships on the sea marching like chariots to

the cannon. In a flash, as happens when many minds are tense together,

they realised the truth. A new landing was being made. All along the

coast by the Bay the crackle and the flash of firing was moving from the

sea, to shew them that the landing was made good, and that the Turks

were falling back. Hardening their hearts at this sight of help coming

from the sea the Australians and Sikhs with the last of their strength

went at Koja Chemen Tepe, and the New Zealanders upon their right rose

to the storm of Chunuk.



It was not to be. The guns behind them backed them. They did what mortal

men could do, but they were worn out by the night's advance, they could

not carry the two summits. They tried a second time to carry Chunuk; but

they were too weary and the Turks in too great strength; they could not

get to the top. But they held to what they had won; they entrenched

themselves on the new line, and there they stayed, making ready for the

next attack.



Two or three have said to me: "They ought not to have been exhausted;

none of them had marched five miles." It is difficult to answer such

critics patiently, doubly difficult to persuade them, without showing

them the five miles. There comes into my mind, as I write, the image of

some hills in the west of Ireland, a graceful and austere range, not

difficult to climb, seemingly, and not unlike these Gallipoli hills, in

their look of lying down at rest. The way to those hills is over some

miles of scattered limestone blocks, with gaps between them full of

scrub, gorse, heather, dwarf-ash and little hill-thorn, and the

traveller proceeds, as the Devil went through Athlone, "in standing

lepps." This journey to the hills is the likest journey (known to me) to

that of the assaulting columns. Like the Devil in Athlone the assaulting

columns had often to advance "in standing lepps," but to them the

standing lepp came as a solace, a rare, strange and blessed respite,

from forcing through scrub by main strength, or scaling a crag of rotten

sandstone, in pitch darkness, in the presence of an enemy. For an armed

force to advance a mile an hour by day over such a country is not only

good going, but a great achievement; to advance four miles in a night

over such a country, fighting literally all the way, often hand to hand,

and to feel the enemy's resistance stiffening and his reserves arriving,

as the strength fails and the ascent steepens, and yet to make an effort

at the end, is a thing unknown in the history of war. And this first

fourteen hours of exhausting physical labour was but the beginning. The

troops, as they very well knew, were to have two or three days more of

the same toil before the battle could be ended, one way or the other. So

after struggling for fourteen hours with every muscle in their bodies,

over crags and down gullies in the never-ceasing peril of death, they

halted in the blaze of noon and drew their breath. In the evening, as

they hoped, the men from Suvla would join hands and go on to victory

with them; they had fought the first stage of the battle, the next stage

was to be decisive.



The heat of this noon of August 7th on those sandy hills was a scarcely

bearable torment.





Meanwhile, at Suvla, the left of the battle, the 11th Division, had

landed in the pitch-darkness, by wading ashore, in five feet of water,

under rifle fire, on to beaches prepared with land mines. The first

boat-loads lost many men from the mines and from the fire of snipers,

who came right down to the beach in the darkness and fired from the

midst of our men. These snipers were soon bayoneted, our men formed for

the assault in the dark and stormed the Turk outpost on Lala Baba there

and then. While Lala Baba was being cleared other battalions moved north

to clear the Turk from the neighbourhood of the beach on that side. The

ground over which they had to move is a sand-dune-land, covered with

gorse and other scrub, most difficult to advance across in a wide

extension. About half a mile from the beach the ground rises in a roll

of whale-back, known on the battle plans as Hill 10. This hill is about

three hundred yards long and thirty feet high. At this whale-back (which

was entrenched) the Turks rallied on their supports; they had, perhaps,

a couple of thousand men and (some say) a gun or two, and the dawn broke

before they could be rushed. Their first shells upon our men set fire to

the gorse, so that our advance against them was through a blazing common

in which many men who fell wounded were burnt to death or suffocated.

The Turks, seeing the difficulties of the men in the fire, charged with

the bayonet, but were themselves charged and driven back in great

disorder; the fire spread to their hill and burned them out of it. Our

men then began to drive the Turks away from the high ridges to the north

of Suvla. The 10th Division began to land while this fight was still in

progress.



This early fighting had won for us a landing-place at Suvla and had

cleared the ground to the north of the bay for the deployment for the

next attack. This was to be a swinging round of two Brigades to the

storm of the hills directly to the east of the Salt Lake. These hills

are the island-like double-peaked Chocolate Hill (close to the lake) and

the much higher and more important hills of Scimitar Hill (or Hill 70)

and Ismail Oglu Tepe (Hill 100) behind it. The Brigade chosen for this

attack were the 31st (consisting of Irish Regiments) belonging to the

10th Division, and the 32nd (consisting of Yorkshire and North of

England Regiments) belonging to the 11th Division. The 32nd had been

hotly engaged since the very early morning, the 31st were only just on

shore. The storm was to be pushed from the north, and would, if

successful, clear the way for the final thrust, the storm of Koja-Chemen

Tepe from the northwest.



This thrust from Suvla against Koja Chemen was designed to complete and

make decisive the thrust already begun by the Right and Left Attacking

Columns. The attack on Chocolate Hill, Scimitar Hill and Ismail Oglu was

to make that thrust possible by destroying forever the power of the Turk

to parry it. The Turk could only parry it by firing from those hills on

the men making it. It was therefore necessary to seize those hills

before the Turk could stop us. If the Turks seized those hills before

us, or stopped us from seizing them, our troops could not march from

Suvla to take part in the storm of Koja Chemen. If we seized them before

the Turks, then the Turks could not stop us from crossing the valley to

that storm. The first problem at Suvla therefore was not so much to win

a battle as to win a race with the Turks for the possession of those

hills; the winning of the battle could be arranged later. Our failure to

win that race brought with it our loss of the battle. The next chapter

in the story of the battle is simply a description of the losing of a

race by loss of time.



Now the giving of praise or blame is always easy, but the understanding

of anything is difficult. The understanding of anything so vast, so

confused, so full of contradiction, so dependent on little things

(themselves changing from minute to minute, the coward of a moment ago

blazing out into a hero at the next turn) as a modern battle is more

than difficult. But some attempt must be made to understand how it came

about that time was lost at Suvla, between the landing, at midnight on

the 6th-7th August, and the arrival of the Turks upon the hills, at

midnight on the 8th-9th.



In the first place it should be said that the beaches of Suvla are not

the beaches of seaside resorts, all pleasant smooth sand and shingle.

They are called beaches because they cannot well be called cliffs. They

slope into the sea with some abruptness, in pentes of rock and tumbles

of sand-dune difficult to land upon from boats. From them, one climbs

onto sand-dune, into a sand-dune land, which is like nothing so much as

a sea-marsh from which the water has receded. Walking on this soft sand

is difficult, it is like walking in feathers; working, hauling and

carrying upon it is very difficult. Upon this coast and country,

roadless, wharfless, beachless and unimproved, nearly 30,000 men landed

in the first ten hours of August 7th. At 10 A.M., on that day, when the

sun was in his stride, the difficulty of those beaches began to tell on

those upon them. There had been sharp fighting on and near the beaches,

and shells were still falling here and there in all the ground which we

had won. On and near the beaches there was a congestion of a very

hindering kind. With men coming ashore, shells bursting among them,

mules landing, biting, kicking, shying and stampeding, guns limbering up

and trying to get out into position, more men coming ashore or seeking

for the rest of their battalion in a crowd where all battalions looked

alike, shouts, orders and counter-orders, ammunition boxes being passed

along, water carts and transport being started for the firing line,

wounded coming down or being helped down, or being loaded into lighters,

doctors trying to clear the way for field dressing stations, with every

now and then a shell from Ismail sending the sand in clouds over

corpses, wounded men and fatigue parties, and a blinding August sun over

all to exhaust and to madden, it was not possible to avoid congestion.

This congestion was the first, but not the most fatal cause of the loss

of time.



Though the congestion was an evil in itself, its first evil effect was

that it made it impossible to pass orders quickly from one part of the

beach to another. In this first matter of the attack on the hills, the

way had been opened for the assault by 10 A.M. at the latest but to get

through the confusion along the beaches (among battalions landing,

forming and defiling, and the waste of wounded momentarily increasing)

to arrange for the assault and to pass the orders to the battalions

named for the duty, took a great deal of time. It was nearly 1 P.M. when

the 31st moved north from Lala Baba on their march round the head of the

Salt Lake into position for the attack. The 32nd Brigade, having fought

since dawn at Hill 10, was already to the north of the Salt Lake, but

when (at about 3 P.M.) the 31st took position, facing southeast, with

its right on the northeast corner of the Salt Lake, the 32nd was not

upon its left ready to advance with it. Instead of that guard upon its

left the 31st found a vigorous attack of Turks. More time was lost,

waiting for support to reach the left, and before it arrived, word came

that the attack upon the hills was to be postponed till after 5 P.M.

Seeing the danger of delay and that Chocolate Hill at least should be

seized at once, the Brigadier General (Hill) telephoned for supports and

covering fire, held off the attack on his left with one battalion, and

with the rest of his Brigade started at once to take Chocolate Hill,

cost what it might. The men went forward and stormed Chocolate Hill, the

7th Royal Dublin Fusiliers bearing the brunt of the storm.



At some not specified time, perhaps after this storm, in a general

retirement of the Turks, Hill 70, or Scimitar Hill, was abandoned to us,

and occupied by an English battalion.



During all this day of the 7th of August all our men suffered acutely

from the great heat and from thirst. Several men went raving mad from

thirst, others assaulted the water guards, pierced the supply hoses, or

swam to the lighters to beg for water. Thirst in great heat is a cruel

pain, and this (afflicting some regiments more than others) demoralised

some and exhausted all. Efforts were made to send up and to find water;

but the distribution system, beginning on a cluttered beach and ending

in a rough, unknown country full of confused fighting and firing,

without anything like a road, and much of it blazing or smouldering from

the scrub fires, broke down, and most of the local wells, when

discovered, were filled with corpses put there by the Turk garrison.

Some unpolluted wells of drinkable, though brackish water, were found,

but most of these were guarded by snipers, who shot at men going to

them. Many men were killed thus and many more wounded, for the Turk

snipers were good shots, cleverly hidden.



All through the day in the Suvla area, thirst, due to the great heat,

was another cause of loss of time in the fulfilment of that part of the

tactical scheme; but it was not the final and fatal cause.



Chocolate Hill was taken by our men (now utterly exhausted by thirst and

heat) just as darkness fell. They were unable to go on against Ismail

Oglu Tepe. They made their dispositions for the night on the line they

had won, sent back to the beaches for ammunition, food and water, and

tried to forget their thirst. They were in bad case, and still two miles

from the Australians below Koja Chemen Tepe. Very late that night word

reached them that the Turks were massed in a gulley to their front, that

no other enemy reserves were anywhere visible, and that the Turks had

withdrawn their guns, fearing that they would be taken next morning.

Before dawn on the all-important day of the 8th August, our men at Suvla

after a night of thirst and sniping, stood to arms to help out the vital

thrust of the battle.



Had time not been lost on the 7th, their task on the 8th would have been

to cross the valley at dawn, join the Australians and go with them up

the spurs to victory, in a strength which the Turks could not oppose. At

dawn on the 8th their path to the valley was still barred by the

uncaptured Turk fort on Ismail; time had been lost; there could be no

crossing the valley till Ismail was taken. There was still time to take

it and cross the valley to the storm, but the sands were falling. Up on

Chunuk already the battle had begun without them; no time was lost on

Chunuk.



Up on Chunuk at that moment a very bitter battle was being fought. On

the right, on Chunuk itself, the Gloucester and New Zealand Regiments

were storming the hill, in the centre and on the left the Australians,

English, and Indians were trying for Hill Q and the south of Koja

Chemen. They had passed the night on the hillsides under a never-ceasing

fire of shells and bullets, now, before dawn, they were making a

terrible attempt. Those on Chunuk went up with a rush, pelted from in

front and from both flanks by every engine of death. The Gloucesters

were on the left and the New Zealanders on the right in this great

assault. They deployed past The Farm and then went on to the storm of a

hill which rises some four hundred feet in as many yards. They were on

the top by dawn; Chunuk Bair, the last step, but one, to victory, was

ours and remained ours all day, but at a cost which few successful

attacks have ever known. By four o'clock that afternoon the New

Zealanders had dwindled to three officers and fifty men, and

the Gloucester battalion, having lost every officer and senior

non-commissioned officer, was fighting under section-leaders and

privates. Still, their attack had succeeded; they were conquerors. In

the centre the attack on Hill Q was less successful. There the English

and Indian regiments, assaulting together, were held; the Turks were too

strong. Our men got up to the top of the lower spurs, and there had to

lie down and scrape cover, for there was no going further. On the left

of our attack the Australians tried to storm the Abd-el-Rahman Bair from

the big gulley of Asma Dere. They went up in the dark with Australian

dash to a venture pretty desperate even for Gallipoli. The Turks held

the high ground on both sides of the Asma gulley, and were there in

great force with many machine guns. The Australians were enfiladed, held

in front, and taken in reverse, and (as soon as it was light enough for

the Turks to see) they suffered heavily. As one of the Australians has

described it: "The 14th and 15th Battalions moved out in single file and

deployed to the storm and an advance was made under heavy rifle and

machine gun fire. After the 15th Battalion had practically withered

away, the 14th continued to advance, suffering heavily, and the Turks in

great force. As we drove them back, they counter attacked, several

times. The Battalion thus got very split up and it is impossible to say

exactly what happened."



It is now possible to say exactly that that 14th Battalion fought like

heroes in little bands of wounded and weary men, and at last, with great

reluctance, on repeated orders, fell back to the Asma Dere from which

they had come, beating off enemy attacks all the way down the hill, and

then held on, against all that the Turk could do.



By noon, this assault, which would have been decisive had the men from

Suvla been engaged with the Australians, was at an end. Its right had

won Chunuk, and could just hold on to what it had won, its centre was

held, and its left driven back. The fire upon all parts of the line was

terrific; our men were lying (for the most part) in scratchings of

cover, for they could not entrench under fire so terrible. Often in that

rough and tumble country, the snipers and bombers of both sides, were

within a few yards of each other, and in the roar and blast of the great

battle were countless little battles, or duels to the death, which made

the ground red and set the heather on fire. Half of the hills of that

accursed battlefield, too false of soil to be called crags and too

savage with desolation to be called hills, such as feed the sheep and

bees of England, were blazing in sweeps of flame, which cast up smoke to

heaven, and swept in great swathes across the gullies. Shells from our

ships were screaming and bursting among all that devil's playground; it

was an anxious time for the Turks. Many a time throughout that day the

Turkish officers must have looked down anxiously upon the Suvla plain to

see if our men there were masters of Ismail and on the way to Koja

Chemen. For the moment, as they saw, we were held; but not more than

held. With a push from Suvla to help us, we could not be held. Our men

on the hills, expecting that helping push, drew breath for a new assault.



It was now noon. The battle so far was in our favour. We had won ground,

some of it an all-important ground, and for once we had the Turks with

their backs against the wall and short of men. At Helles they were

pressed, at Lone Pine they were threatened at the heart, under Koja

Chemen the knife point was touching the heart, and at Suvla was the new

strength to drive the knife point home and begin the end of the war. And

the Turks could not stop that new strength. Their nearest important

reserve of men was at Eski Kevi, ten miles away by a road which could

scarcely be called a goat track, and these reserves had been called on

for the fight at Krithia, and still more for the two days of struggle at

Lone Pine. All through that day of the eighth of August Fate waited to

see what would happen between Suvla and Koja Chemen. She fingered with

her dice uncertain which side to favour; she waited to be courted by the

one who wanted her. Eight hours of daylight had gone by, but there was

still no moving forward from Suvla, to seize Ismail and pass from it

across the valley to the storm. Noon passed into the afternoon, but

there was still no movement. Four hours more went by, and now our

aeroplanes brought word that the Turks near Suvla were moving back their

guns by ox-teams, and that their foot were on the march, coming along

their breakneck road, making perhaps a mile an hour, but marching and

drawing steadily nearer to the threatened point. The living act of the

battle was due at Ismail: from Ismail the last act, the toppling down of

the Turk forever among the bones of his victims and the ruin of his

ally, would have been prepared and assured. There was a desultory fire

around Ismail, and the smoke of scrub fires which blazed and smouldered

everywhere as far as the eye could see, but no roar and blaze and outcry

of a meant attack. The battle hung fire on the left, the hours were

passing, the Turks were coming. It was only five o'clock still; we had

still seven hours or more. In the centre we had almost succeeded. We

could hang on there and try again, there was still time. The chance

which had been plainly ours, was still an even chance. It was for the

left to seize it for us, the battle waited for the left, the poor, dying

Gloucesters and Wellingtons hung on to Chunuk for it, the Gurkhas and

English in the trampled cornfields near The Farm died where they lay on

the chance of it, the Australians on Abd-el-Rahman held steady in the

hope of it, under a fire that filled the air.



If, as men say, the souls of a race, all the company of a nation's dead,

rally to the living of their people in a time of storm, those fields of

hell below Koja Chemen, won by the sweat and blood and dying agony of

our thousands, must have answered with a ghostly muster of English souls

in the afternoon of that eighth of August. There was the storm, there

was the crisis, the one picked hour, to which this death and mangling

and dying misery and exultation had led. Then was the hour for a casting

off of self, and a setting aside of every pain and longing and sweet

affection, a giving up of all that makes a man to be something which

makes a race, and a going forward to death resolvedly to help out their

brothers high up above in the shell bursts and the blazing gorse. Surely

all through the eighth of August our unseen dead were on that field,

blowing the horn of Roland, the unheard, unheeded horn, the horn of

heroes in the dolorous pass, asking for the little that heroes ask, but

asking in vain. If ever the great of England cried from beyond death to

the living they cried then. "De ço qui calt. Demuret i unt trop."



All through the morning of that day, the Commander-in-Chief, on watch at

his central station, had waited with growing anxiety for the advance

from the Suvla Beaches. Till the afternoon the critical thrust on Chunuk

and the great Turk pressure at Lone Pine made it impossible for him to

leave his post to intervene, but, in the afternoon, seeing that neither

wireless nor telephone messages could take the place of personal vision

and appeal, he took the risk of cutting himself adrift from the main

conflict, hurried to Suvla, landed, and found the great battle of the

war, that should have brought peace to all that Eastern world, being

lost by minutes before his eyes.



Only one question mattered then: "Was there still time?" Had the Turks

made good their march and crowned those hills, or could our men

forestall them? It was now doubtful, but the point was vital, not only

to the battle, but to half the world in travail. It had to be put to the

test. A hundred years ago, perhaps even fifty years ago, all could have

been saved. Often in those old days, a Commander-in-Chief could pull a

battle out of the fire and bring halted or broken troops to victory.

Then, by waving a sword, and shouting a personal appeal, the resolute

soul could pluck the hearts of his men forward in a rush that nothing

could stem. So Wolfe took Quebec, so Desaix won Marengo, so Bonaparte

swept the bridge at Lodi and won at Arcola; so Cæsar overcame the Nervii

in the terrible day, and wrecked the Republic at Pharsalia. So Sherman

held the landing at Shiloh and Farragut pitted his iron heart against

iron ships at Fort Jackson. So Sir Ian Hamilton himself snatched victory

from the hesitation at Elandslaagte. Then the individual's will could

take instant effect, but then the individual's front was not a five mile

front of wilderness, the men were under his hand, within sight and sound

of him and not committed by order to another tactical project. There, at

Suvla, there was no chance for these heroic methods. Suvla was the

modern battle field, where nothing can be done quickly except the firing

of a machine gun. On the modern field, especially on such a field as

Suvla, where the troops were scattered in the wilderness, it may take

several hours for an order to pass from one wing to the other. In this

case it was not an order that was to pass, but a counter-order; the

order had already gone, for an attack at dawn on the morrow.



All soldiers seem agreed, that even with authority to back it, a

counter-order, on a modern battlefield, to urge forward halted troops,

takes time to execute. Sir Ian Hamilton's determination to seize those

hills could not spare the time; too much time had already gone. He

ordered an advance at all costs with whatever troops were not scattered,

but only four battalions could be found in any way ready to move. It was

now 5 P.M.: there were perhaps three more hours of light. The four

battalions were ordered to advance at once to make good what they could

of the hills fronting the bay before the Turks forestalled them. At dawn

the general attack as already planned was to support them. Unfortunately

the four battalions were less ready than was thought; they were not able

to advance at once, nor for ten all-precious hours. They did not begin

to advance till 4 o'clock the next morning (the 9th of August) and even

then the rest of the Division which was to support them was not in

concert with them. They attacked the hills to the north of Anafarta

Sagir, but they were now too late, the Turks were there before them, in

great force, with their guns, and the thrust, which the day before could

have been met by (at most) five Turk battalions without artillery was

now parried and thwarted. Presently the Division attacked with great

gallantry, over burning scrub, seized Ismail and was then checked and

forced back to the Chocolate Hills. The left had failed. The main blow

of the battle on Sari Bair was to have no support from Suvla.



The main blow was given, none the less, by the troops near Chunuk. Three

columns were formed in the pitchy blackness of the very early morning of

the 9th, two to seize and clear Chunuk and Hill Q, the third to pass

from Hill Q on the wave of the assault to the peak of Koja Chemen. The

first two columns were on the lower slopes of Chunuk and in the fields

about The Farm, with orders to attack at dawn. The third column

consisting wholly of English troops was not yet on the ground, but

moving during the night up the Chailak Dere. The Dere was jammed with

pack-mules, ammunition and wounded men; it was pitch dark and the column

made bad going, and those leading it were doubtful of the way.

Brigadier-General Baldwin, who commanded, left his Brigade in the Dere,

went to the Headquarters of the 1st column, and brought back guides to

lead his Brigade into position. The guides led him on in the darkness,

till they realised that they were lost. The Brigadier marched his men

back to the Chailak, and then, still in pitch darkness, up a nullah into

the Aghyl Dere, and from there, in growing light, towards The Farm. This

wandering in the darkness had tragical results.



At half-past four the guns from the ships and the army opened on Chunuk,

and the columns moved to the assault. Soon the peaks of their objective

were burning like the hills of hell to light them on their climb to

death, and they went up in the half-darkness to the storm of a volcano

spouting fire, driving the Turks before them. Some of the Warwicks and

South Lancashires were the first upon the top of Chunuk; Major Allanson,

leading the 6th Gurkhas, was the first on the ridge between Chunuk and

Hill Q. Up on the crests came the crowding sections; the Turks were

breaking and falling back. Our men passed over the crests and drove the

Turks down on the other side. Victory was flooding up over Chunuk like

the Severn tide: our men had scaled the scarp, and there below them lay

the ditch, the long grey streak of the Hellespont, the victory and the

reward of victory. The battle lay like a field ripe to the harvest, our

men had but to put in the sickle. The Third Column was the sickle of

that field, that Third Column which had lost its way in the blackness of

the wilderness. Even now that Third Column was coming up the hill below;

in a few minutes it would have been over the crest, going on to victory

with the others. Then, at that moment of time, while our handful on the

hilltop waited for the weight of the Third Column to make its thrust a

death-blow, came the most tragical thing in all that tragical campaign.



It was barely daylight when our men won the hilltop. The story is that

our men moving on the crest were mistaken for Turks, or (as some think)

that there was some difference in officers' watches, some few minutes'

delay in beginning the fire of the guns, and therefore some few minutes'

delay in stopping the bombardment, which had been ordered to continue

upon the crest for three-quarters of an hour from 4.30 A.M. Whatever the

cause, whether accident, fate, mistake, or the daily waste and confusion

of battle, our own guns searched the hilltop for some minutes too long,

and thinned out our brave handful with a terrible fire. They were caught

in the open and destroyed there; the Turks charged back upon the remnant

and beat them off the greater part of the crest. Only a few minutes

after this the Third Column came into action in support: too late.



The Turks beat them down the hill to The Farm, but could not drive the

men of the First Column from the southwestern half of the top of the

Chunuk. All through the hard and bloody day of the 9th of August the

Turks tried to carry this peak, but never quite could, though the day

was one long succession of Turk attacks, the Turks fresh and in great

strength, our men weary from three terrible days and nights and only a

battalion strong, since the peak would not hold more. The New Zealanders

and some of the 13th Division held that end of Chunuk. They were in

trenches which had been dug under fire, partly by themselves, partly by

the Turks. In most places these trenches were only scratchings in the

ground, since neither side on that blazing and stricken hill could stand

to dig. Here and there, in sheltered patches, the trenches were three

feet deep, but whether three feet deep or three inches, all were badly

sited, and in some parts had only ten yards field of fire. In these pans

or scratchings our men fought all day, often hand to hand, usually under

a pelt of every kind of fire, often amid a shower of bombs since the

Turks could creep up under cover to within so few yards. Our men lost

very heavily during the day but at nightfall we still held the peak.

After dark the 6th Loyal North Lancashires relieved the garrison, took

over the trenches, did what they could to strengthen them, and advanced

them by some yards here and there. At four o'clock on the morning of the

10th, the 5th Wiltshires came up to support them and lay down behind the

trenches in the ashes, sand and scattered rubble of the hilltop. Both

battalions were exhausted from four days and nights of continual

fighting, but in very good heart. At this time, these two battalions

marked the extreme right of our new line; on their left, stretching down

to The Farm, were the 10th Hampshires, and near The Farm the remains of

the Third Column under General Baldwin. There may have been in all some

five thousand men on Chunuk and within a quarter of a mile of it round

The Farm.



In the darkness before dawn when our men on the hill were busy digging

themselves better cover for the day's battle, the Turks, now strongly

reinforced from Bulair and Asia, assaulted Chunuk with not less than

15,000 men. They came on in a monstrous mass, packed shoulder to

shoulder, in some places eight deep, in others three or four deep.

Practically all their first line were shot by our men, practically all

the second line were bayoneted, but the third line got into our trenches

and overwhelmed the garrison. Our men fell back to the second line of

trenches and rallied and fired, but the Turks overwhelmed that line too

and then with their packed multitude they paused and gathered like a

wave, burst down on the Wiltshire Regiment, and destroyed it almost to a

man. Even so, the survivors, outnumbered 40 to 1, formed and charged

with the bayonet, and formed and charged a second time, with a courage

which makes the charge of the Light Brigade seem like a dream. But it

was a hopeless position, the Turks came on like the sea, beat back all

before them, paused for a moment, set rolling down the hill upon our men

a number of enormous round bombs, which bounded into our lines and

burst, and then following up this artillery they fell on the men round

The Farm in the most bloody and desperate fight of the campaign.



Even as they topped Chunuk and swarmed down to engulf our right, our

guns opened upon them in a fire truly awful, but thousands came alive

over the crest and went down to the battle below. Stragglers running

from the first rush put a panic in the Aghyl Dere, where bearers,

doctors, mules and a multitude of wounded were jammed up with soldiers

trying to get up to the fight. Some of our men held up against this

thrust of the Turks, and in that first brave stand, General Baldwin was

killed. Then our line broke, the Turks got fairly in among our men with

a weight which bore all before it, and what followed was a long

succession of British rallies to a tussle body to body, with knives and

stones and teeth, a fight of wild beasts in the ruined cornfields of The

Farm. Nothing can be said of that fight, no words can describe nor any

mind imagine it, except as a roaring and blazing hour of killing. Our

last reserves came up to it, and the Turks were beaten back; very few of

their men reached their lines alive. The Turk dead lay in thousands all

down the slopes of the hill; but the crest of the hill, the prize,

remained in Turk hands, not in ours.



That ended the battle of the 6th-10th of August. We had beaten off the

Turks, but our men were too much exhausted to do more. They could not go

up the hill again. Our thrust at Sari Bair had failed. It had just

failed, by a few minutes, though unsupported from the left. Even then,

at the eleventh hour, two fresh battalions and a ton of water would have

made Chunuk ours, but we had neither the men nor the water; Sari was not

to be our hill. Our men fought for four days and nights in a wilderness

of gorse and precipice to make her ours. They fought in a blazing sun,

without rest, with little food and with almost no water, on hills on

fire and on crags rotting to the tread. They went, like all their

brothers in that Peninsula, on a forlorn hope, and by bloody pain they

won the image and the taste of victory, and then, when their reeling

bodies had burst the bars, so that our race might pass through, there

were none to pass, the door was open, but there were none to go through

it to triumph, and then, slowly, as strength failed, the door was shut

again, the bars were forged again, victory was hidden again, all was to

do again, and our brave men were but the fewer and the bitterer for all

their bloody sacrifice for the land they served. All was to do again

after the 10th of August, the great battle of the campaign was over. We

had made our fight, we had seen our enemy beaten and the prize

displayed, and then (as before at Helles) we had to stop for want of

men, till the enemy had remade his army and rebuilt his fort.









VI



The day passed, the night came, the King lay down in his vaulted room.

St. Gabriel came from God to call him. "Charles, summon the army of your

empire and go by forced marches into the land of Bire, to the city that

the pagans have besieged. The Christians call and cry for you." The

Emperor wished not to go. "God," he said, "how painful is my life." He

wept from his eyes, he tore his white beard.



 _The end of the Song of Roland._





That, in a way, was the end of the campaign, for no other attempt to win

through was made. The Turks were shaken to the heart. Another battle

following at once might well have broken them. But we had not the men

nor the shells for another battle. In the five days' battle on the front

of twelve miles we had lost very little less than a quarter of our

entire army, and we had shot away most of our always scanty supply of

ammunition. We could not attack again till fifty thousand more men were

landed and the store of shells replenished. Those men and shells were

not near Gallipoli, but in England, where the war as a whole had to be

considered. The question to be decided, by those directing the war as a

whole, was, "should those men and shells be sent?" It was decided by the

High Direction, that they should not be sent: the effort therefore could

not be made.



Since the effort could not be made, the campaign declined into a

secondary operation, to contain large reserves of Turks, with their guns

and munitions, from use elsewhere, in Mesopotamia or in the Caucasus.

But before it became this, a well-planned and well-fought effort was

made from Suvla to secure our position by seizing the hills to the east

of the Bay. This attack took place on the 21st August, in intense heat,

across an open plain without cover of any kind, blazing throughout

nearly all its length with scrub fires. The 29th Division (brought up

from Cape Helles) carried Scimitar Hill with great dash, and was then

held up. The attack on Ismail Oglu failed. Two thrusts made by the men

of Anzac in the latter days of August, secured an important well, and

the Turk stronghold of Hill 60. This last success made the line from

Anzac to Suvla impregnable.



After this, since no big attempt could be made by the Allied Troops and

no big attempt was made by the enemy, the fighting settled down into

trench warfare on both sides. There was some shelling every day and

night, some machine gun and rifle fire, much sniping, great vigilance,

and occasional bombing and mining. The dysentery, which had been present

ever since the heats began, increased beyond all measure; very few men

in all that army were not attacked and weakened by it. Many thousands

went down with it; Mudros, Alexandria and Malta were filled with cases;

many died.



Those who remained, besides carrying on the war by daily and nightly

fire, worked continually with pick and shovel to improve the lines. Long

after the war, the goatherd on Gallipoli will lose his way in the miles

of trenches which zigzag from Cape Helles to Achi Baba and from Gaba

Tepe to Ejelmer Bay. They run to and fro in all that expanse of land,

some of them shallow, others deep cuttings in the marl, many of them

paved with stone or faced with concrete, most of them sided with little

caverns, leading far down (in a few cases) to rooms twenty feet under

the ground. Long after we are all dust the goats of Gallipoli will break

their legs in those pits and ditches, and over their coffee round the

fire the elders will say that they were dug by devils and the sons of

devils, and antiquarians will come from the west to dig there, and will

bring away shards of iron, and empty tins and bones. Fifty years ago

some French staff officers traced out the works round Durazzo, where

Pompey the Great fought just such another campaign, two thousand years

ago. Two thousand years hence, when this war is forgotten, those lines

under the ground will draw the staff officers of whatever country is

then the most cried for brains.



Those lines were the homes of thousands of our soldiers for half a year

and more. There they lived and did their cooking and washing, made their

jokes and sang their songs. There they sweated under their burdens, and

slept, and fell in to die. There they marched up the burning hill, where

the sand devils flung by the shells were blackening heaven, there they

lay in their dirty rags awaiting death, and there by thousands up and

down they lie buried, in little lonely graves where they fell, or in the

pits of the great engagements.



Those lines at Cape Helles, Anzac and Suvla, were once busy towns,

thronged by thousands of citizens whose going and coming and daily

labour were cheerful with singing, as though those places were mining

camps during a gold rush, instead of a perilous front where the fire

never ceased and the risk of death was constant. But for the noise of

war, coming in an irregular rattle, with solitary big explosions, the

screams of shells or the wild whistling crying of ricochets, they seemed

busy but very peaceful places. At night, from the sea, the lamps of the

dugouts on the cliffs were like the lights of seacoast towns in summer,

and the places seemingly as peaceful, but for the pop and rattle of fire

and the streaks of glare from the shells. There was always singing,

sometimes very good, and always beautiful, coming in the crash of war;

and always one heard the noises of the work of men, the beat of

piledrivers, wheels going over stones, and the little solid pobbing

noises, from bullets dropping in the sea.



I have said that those positions were like mining camps during a gold

rush. Ballarat, the Sacramento, and the camps of the Transvaal must have

looked strangely like those camps at Suvla and Cape Helles. Anzac at

night was like those crags of old building over the Arno at Florence; by

day it was a city of cliff dwellers, stirring memories of the race's

past. An immense expanse was visible from all these places; at Cape

Helles there was the plain rising gradually to Achi Baba, at Anzac a

wilderness of hills, at Suvla the same hills seen from below. Over all

these places came a strangeness of light, unlike anything to be seen in

the west, a light which made the hills clear and unreal at the same

time, softening their savagery into peace, till they seemed not hills

but swellings of the land, as though the land there had breathed-in and

risen a little. All the places were dust-coloured as soon as the flowers

had withered, a dark dust-coloured where the scrub grew (often almost

wine-dark like our own hills where heather grows) a pale sand colour,

where the scrub gave out, and elsewhere a paleness and a greyness as of

moss and lichen and old stone. On this sandy and dusty land, where even

the trees were grey and ghostly (olive and Eastern currant) the camps

were scattered, a little and a little, never much in one place on

account of shelling, till the impression given was one of multitude.



The signs of the occupation began far out at sea where the hospital

ships lay waiting for their freight. There were always some there,

painted white and green, lying outside the range of the big guns. Nearer

to the shore were the wrecks of ships, some of them sunk by our men, to

make breakwaters, some sunk by the Turk shells, some knocked to pieces

or washed ashore by foul weather. Nearly all these wrecks were of small

size, trawlers, drifters and little coastwise vessels such as peddle and

bring home fish on the English coasts. Closer in, right on the beaches,

were the bones of still smaller boats, pinnaces, cutters and lighters,

whose crews had been the men of the first landings. Men could not see

those wrecks without a thrill. There were piers at all the beaches, all

built under shell fire, to stand both shell fire and the sea, and at the

piers there was always much busy life, men singing at their work, horses

and mules disembarking, food and munitions and water discharging,

wounded going home and drafts coming ashore. On the beaches were the

hieroglyphs of the whole bloody and splendid story; there were the marks

and signs, which no one could mistake nor see unmoved.



Even after months of our occupation the traces were there off the main

tracks. A man had but to step from one of the roads into the scrub, and

there they lay, relics of barbed wire, blown aside in tangles, round

shrapnel-bullets in the sand, empty cartridge-cases, clips of cartridge

cases bent double by a blow yet undischarged, pieces of flattened rifle

barrel, rags of leather, broken bayonets, jags and hacks of shell, and,

in little hollows, little heaps of cartridge-cases, where some man had

lain to fire for hour after hour, often until he died at his post, on

the 25th of April. Here, too, one came upon the graves of soldiers,

sometimes alone, sometimes three or four together, each with an

inscribed cross and border of stones from the beach. Privates, sergeants

and officers lay in those graves and by them, all day long, the work

which they had made possible by that sacrifice on the 25th, went on in a

stream, men and munitions going up to the front, and wounded and the

dying coming down, while the explosions of the cannon trembled through

the earth to them and the bullets piped and fell over their heads.



But the cities of those camps were not cities of the dead, they were

cities of intense life, cities of comradeship and resolve, unlike the

cities of peace. At Mudros, all things seemed little, for there men were

dwarfed by their setting; they were there in ships which made even a

full battalion seem only a cluster of heads. On the Peninsula they

seemed to have come for the first time to full stature. There they were

bigger than their surroundings. There they were naked manhood pitted

against death in the desert and more than holding their own.



All those sun-smitten hills and gullies, growing nothing but crackling

scrub, were peopled by crowds. On all the roads, on the plain, which lay

white like salt in the glare, and on the sides of the gullies, strange,

sunburned, half-naked men moved at their work with the bronze bodies of

gods. Like Egyptians building a city they passed and repassed with boxes

from the walls of stores built on the beach. Dust had toned their

uniforms even with the land. Their half-nakedness made them more grand

than clad men. Very few of them were less than beautiful; whole

battalions were magnificent, the very flower of the world's men. They

had a look in their eyes which those who saw them will never forget.



Sometimes as one watched, one heard a noise of cheering from the ships,

and this, the herald of good news, passed inland, till men would rise

from sleep in their dugouts, come to the door, blinking in the sun, to

pass on the cheer. In some strange way the news, the cause of the

cheering, passed inland with the cheer; a submarine had sunk a transport

off Constantinople, or an aeroplane had bombed a powder factory. One

heard the news pass on and on, till it rang from the front trenches ten

yards from the Turk line. Sometimes the cheering was very loud, mingled

with singing; then it was a new battalion, coming from England, giving

thanks that they were there, after their months of training, to help the

fleet through. Men who heard those battalions singing will never hear

those songs of "Tipperary," "Let's all go down the Strand," or "We'll

all go the same way home," without a quickening at the heart.



Everywhere in the three positions there were the homes of men. In gashes

or clefts of the earth were long lines of mules or horses with Indian

grooms. On the beaches were offices, with typewriters clicking and

telephone bells ringing. Stacked on one side were ammunition carts so

covered with bushes that they looked like the scrub they stood on. Here

and there were strangely painted guns, and everywhere the work of men,

armourer's forges, farrier's anvils, the noise and clink and bustle of a

multitude. Everywhere, too, but especially in the gullies were the

cave-dwellings of the dugouts, which so dotted the cliffs with their

doors, that one seemed put back to Cro-Magnon or Tampa, into some

swarming tribe of cave-dwellers. All the dugouts were different, though

all were built upon the same principle, first a scooping in the earth,

then a raised earth ledge for a bed, then (if one were lucky) a

corrugated-iron roof propped by balks, lastly a topping of sandbags

strewn with scrub. For doors, if one had a door or sunshade, men used

sacking, burlap, a bit of canvas, or a blanket. Then, when the work was

finished, the builder entered in, to bathe in his quarter of a pint of

water, smoke his pipe, greet his comrades, and think foul scorn of the

Turk, whose bullets piped and droned overhead, all day and night, like

the little finches of home. Looking out from the upper dugouts one saw

the dusty, swarming warren of men, going and coming, with a kind of

swift slouch, carrying boxes from the beach. Mules and men passed, songs

went up and down the gullies, and were taken up by those at rest, men

washed and mended clothes, or wandered naked and sun reddened along the

beach, bathing among dropping bullets. Wounded men came down on

stretchers, sick men babbled in pain or cursed the flies, the forges

clinked, the pile drivers beat in the balks of the piers, the bullets

droned and piped, or rushed savagely, or popped into a sandbag. Up in

the trenches the rifles made the irregular snaps of fire-crackers,

sometimes almost ceasing, then popping, then running along a section in

a rattle, then quickening down the line and drawing the enemy, then

pausing and slowly ceasing and beginning again. From time to time, with

a whistle and a wailing, some Asian shell came over and dropped and

seemed to multiply, and gathered to herself the shriek of all the devils

of hell, and burst like a devil and filled a great space with blackness

and dust and falling fragments. Then another and another came, almost in

the same place, till the gunners had had enough. Then the dust settled,

the ruin was made good, and all went on as before, men carrying and

toiling and singing, bullets piping, and the flies settling and swarming

on whatever was obscene in what the shell had scattered.



Everywhere in those positions there was gaiety and courage and devoted

brotherhood, but there was also another thing, which brooded over all,

and struck right home to the heart. It was a tragical feeling, a taint

or flavour in the mind, such as men often feel in hospitals when many

are dying, the sense that Death was at work there, that Death lived

there, that Death wandered up and down there and fed on Life.



 [Illustration: An Australian bringing in a wounded comrade to hospital]



Since the main object of the campaign, to help the fleet through the

Narrows, had been abandoned (in mid-August), and no further thrust was

to be made against the Turks, the questions "Were our 100,000 men in

Gallipoli containing a sufficiently large army of Turks to justify their

continuance on the Peninsula?" and "Could they be more profitably used

elsewhere?" arose in the minds of the High Direction from week to week

as the war changed.



In the early autumn, when the Central Powers combined with Bulgaria to

crush Serbia and open a road to Constantinople, these questions became

acute. During October owing to the radical change in the Balkan

situation which was produced by the treachery of Bulgaria and the

bewildering indecision of Greece the advantage of our continuing the

campaign became more and more doubtful and in November, after full

consideration, it was decided to evacuate the Peninsula. Preparations

were made and the work begun.



Late in November, something happened which had perhaps some influence in

hurrying on the date of the evacuation. This was the blizzard of the

26th-28th, which lost us about a tenth of our whole army from cold,

frostbite, exposure, and the sicknesses which follow them. The 26th

began as a cold, dour Gallipoli day with a bitter northeasterly wind,

which increased in the afternoon to a fresh gale, with sleet. Later, it

increased still more, and blew hard, with thunder; and with the thunder

came a rain more violent than any man of our army had ever seen. Water

pours off very quickly from that land of abrupt slopes. In a few minutes

every gully was a raging torrent, and every trench a river. By an

ill-chance this storm fell with cruel violence upon the ever famous 29th

Division then holding trenches at Suvla. The water poured down into

their trenches, as though it were a tidal wave. It came in with a rush,

with a head upon it like the tide advancing, so quickly that men were

one minute dry and the next moment drowned at their posts. They were

caught so suddenly that those who escaped had to leap from their

trenches for dear life, leaving coats, haversacks, food and sometimes

even their rifles, behind them.



Our trenches were in nearly every case below those of the Turks, who

therefore suffered from the water far less than our men did. The Turks

saw our men leaping from their trenches, and either guessing the reason

or fearing an attack, opened a very heavy rifle and shrapnel fire upon

them. Our men had to shelter behind the parados of their trenches, where

they scraped themselves shallow pans in the mud under a heavy fire. At

dark the sleet increased, the mud froze, and there our men lay, most of

them without overcoats, and many of them without food. In one trench

when the flood rose, a pony, a mule, a pig, and two dead Turks were

washed over a barricade together.



Before the night fell, many of our men were frost-bitten and started

limping to the ambulances, under continual shrapnel fire and in blinding

sleet. A good many fell down by the way and were frozen to death. The

gale increased slowly all through the night, blowing hard and steadily

from the north, making a great sea upon the coast, and driving the spray

far inland. At dawn it grew colder, and the sleet hardened into snow,

with an ever-increasing wind, which struck through our men to the

marrow. "They fell ill," said one who was there, "in heaps." The water

from the flood had fallen in the night, but it was still four feet deep

in many of the trenches, and our men passed the morning under fire in

their shelter pans, fishing for food and rifles in their drowned lines.

All through the day the wind gathered, till it was blowing a full gale,

vicious and bitter cold; and on the 28th it reached its worst. The 28th

was spoken of afterwards as "Frozen Foot Day;" it was a day more

terrible than any battle; but now it was taking toll of the Turks, and

the fire slackened. Probably either side could have had the other's

position for the taking on the 28th, had there been enough unfrosted

feet to advance. It was a day so blind with snow and driving storm that

neither side could see to fire, and this brought the advantage, that our

men hopping to the ambulances had not to go through a pelt of shrapnel

bullets. On the 29th, the limits of human strength were reached. Some of

those frozen three days before were able to return to duty, and "a great

number of officers and men who had done their best to stick it out were

forced to go to hospital." The water fell during this day, but it left

on an average 2-1/2 feet of thick, slushy mud, into which many trenches

collapsed. After this the weather was fine and warm.



At Helles and Anzac the fall of the ground gave some protection from

this gale, but at Suvla there was none. When the weather cleared, the

beaches were heaped with the wreck of piers, piles, boats and lighters,

all broken and jammed together. But great as this wreck was the wreck of

men was even greater. The 29th Division had lost two-thirds of its

strength. In the three sectors over 200 men were dead, over 10,000 were

unfit for further service and not less than 30,000 others were sickened

and made old by it.



The Turk loss was much more serious even than this, for though they

suffered less from the wet, they suffered more from the cold, through

being on the higher ground. The snow lay upon their trenches long after

it had gone from ours, and the Turk equipment though very good as far as

it went, was only good for the summer. Their men wore thin clothes, and

many of them had neither overcoat nor blanket. The blizzard which was a

discouragement to us, took nearly all the heart out of the Turks; and

this fact must be borne in mind in the reading of the next few pages.



The gale had one good effect. Either the cold or the rain destroyed or

removed the cause of the dysentery, which had taken nearly a thousand

victims a day for some months. The disease stopped at once and no more

fresh cases were reported.



This storm made any attempt to land or to leave the land impossible for

four days together. Coming, as it did, upon the decision to evacuate, it

gave the prompting, that the evacuation should be hurried, lest such

weather should prevent it. On the 8th of December, the evacuation of

Anzac and Suvla was ordered to begin.



It was not an easy task to remove large numbers of men, guns and animals

from positions commanded by the Turk observers and open to every

cruising aeroplane. But by ruse and skill, and the use of the dark,

favoured by fine weather, the work was done, almost without loss, and,

as far as one could judge, unsuspected.



German agents, eager to discredit those whom they could not defeat, have

said, "that we bribed the Turks to let us go;" next year perhaps they

will say "that the Turks bribed us to go;" the year after that perhaps,

they will invent something equally false and even sillier. But putting

aside the foulness and the folly of this bribery lie, it is interesting

to enquire how it happened that the Turks did not attack our men while

they were embarking.



The Turks were very good fighters, furious in attack and resolute in

defence, but among their qualities of mind were some which greatly

puzzled our commanders. Their minds would sometimes work in ways very

strange to Europeans. They did, or refrained from doing, certain things

in ways for which neither we nor our Allies could account. Some day,

long hence, when the war is over, the Turk story of our withdrawal will

be made known. Until then, we can only guess, why it was that the

embarkation, which many had thought would lose us half our army, was

made good from Anzac and Suvla with the loss of only four or five men

(or less than the normal loss of a night in the trenches). Only two

explanations are possible. Either (1) the Turks knew that we were going

and wanted to be rid of us, or (2) they did not know that we were going

and were entirely deceived by our ruses.



Had they known that we were going from Anzac and Suvla, it is at least

likely that they would have hastened our going, partly that they might

win some booty, which they much needed, or take a large number of

prisoners, whose appearance would have greatly cheered the citizens of

Constantinople. But nearly all those of our army who were there, felt,

both from observation and intelligence, that the Turks did not know that

we were going. As far as men on one side in a war can judge of their

enemies they felt that the Turks were deceived, completely deceived, by

the ruses employed by us, and that they believed that we were being

strongly reinforced for a new attack. Our soldiers took great pains to

make them believe this. Looking down upon us from their heights, the

Turks saw boats leaving the shore apparently empty, and returning,

apparently, full of soldiers. Looking up at them, from our position our

men saw how the sight affected them. For the twelve days during which

the evacuation was in progress at Anzac and Suvla, the Turks were

plainly to be seen, digging everywhere to secure themselves from the

feared attack. They dug new lines, they brought up new guns, they made

ready for us in every way. On the night of the 19th-20th December, in

hazy weather, at full moon, our men left Suvla and Anzac, unmolested.



It was said by Dr. Johnson that "no man does anything, consciously for

the last time, without a feeling of sadness." No man of all that force

passed down those trenches, the scenes of so much misery and pain and

joy and valour and devoted brotherhood, without a deep feeling of

sadness. Even those who had been loudest in their joy at going were sad.

Many there did not want to go; but felt that it was better to stay, and

that then, with another fifty thousand men, the task could be done, and

their bodies and their blood buy victory for us. This was the feeling

even at Suvla, where the men were shaken and sick still from the storm;

but at Anzac, the friendly little kindly city, which had been won at

such cost in the ever-glorious charge of the 28th, and held since with

such pain, and built with such sweat and toil and anguish, in thirst,

and weakness and bodily suffering, which had seen the thousands of the

13th Division land in the dark and hide, and had seen them fall in with

the others to go to Chunuk, and had known all the hope and fervour, all

the glorious resolve, and all the bitterness and disappointment of the

unhelped attempt, the feeling was far deeper. Officers and men went up

and down the well-known gullies moved almost to tears by the thought

that the next day those narrow acres so hardly won and all those graves

of our people so long defended would be in Turk hands.



For some weeks, our men had accustomed the Turks to sudden cessations of

fire for half-an-hour or more. At first, the Turks had been made

suspicious by these silences, but they were now used to them, and

perhaps glad of them. They were not made suspicious by the slackening of

the fire on the night of the withdrawal. The mules and guns had all gone

from Suvla. A few mules and a few destroyed guns were left at Anzac; in

both places a pile of stores was left, all soaked in oil and ready for

firing. The ships of war drew near to the coast, and trained their guns

on the hills. In the haze of the full moon the men filed off from the

trenches down to the beaches and passed away from Gallipoli, from the

unhelped attempt which they had given their bodies and their blood to

make. They had lost no honour. They were not to blame, that they were

creeping off in the dark, like thieves in the night. Had others (not of

their profession) many hundreds of miles away, but seen as they, as

generous, as wise, as forseeing, as full of sacrifice, those thinned

companies with the looks of pain in their faces, and the mud of the

hills thick upon their bodies, would have given thanks in Santa Sophia

three months before. They had failed to take Gallipoli, and the mine

fields still barred the Hellespont, but they had fought a battle such as

has never been seen upon this earth. What they had done will become a

glory forever, wherever the deeds of heroic unhelped men are honoured

and pitied and understood. They went up at the call of duty, with a

bright banner of a battle-cry, against an impregnable fort. Without

guns, without munitions, without help and without drink they climbed the

scarp and held it by their own glorious manhood, quickened by a word

from their chief. Now they were giving back the scarp and going out into

new adventures, wherever the war might turn.



Those going down to the beaches wondered in a kind of awe whether the

Turks would discover them and attack. The minutes passed, and boat after

boat left the shore, but no attack came. The arranged rifles fired

mechanically in the outer trenches at long intervals, and the crackle of

the Turk reply followed. At Anzac, a rearguard of honour had been

formed. The last two hundred men to leave Anzac were survivors of those

who had landed in the first charge, so glorious and so full of hope on

the 25th of April. They had fought through the whole campaign from the

very beginning; they had seen it all. It was only just that they should

be the last to leave. As they, too, moved down, one of their number saw

a solitary Turk, black against the sky, hard at work upon his trench.

That was the last enemy to be seen from Anzac.



At half-past five in the winter morning of the 20th December the last

boat pushed off; and the last of our men had gone from Suvla and Anzac.

Those who had been there from the first were deeply touched. There was a

longing that it might be to do again, with the same comrades, under the

same chiefs but with better luck and better backing. Some distance from

the shore the boats paused to watch the last act in the withdrawal. It

was dead calm weather, with just that ruffle of wind which comes before

the morning. The Turk fire crackled along the lines as usual, but the

withdrawal was still not suspected. Then from the beaches within the

stacks of abandoned stores came the noise of explosion, the charges had

been fired, and soon immense flames were licking up those boxes and

reddening the hills. As the flames grew, there came a stir in the Turk

lines, and then every Turk gun that could be brought to bear opened with

shrapnel and high explosive on the area of the bonfires. It was plain

that the Turks misread the signs. They thought that some lucky shell had

fired our stores and that they could stop us from putting out the

flames. Helped by the blasts of many shells the burning rose like

balefire, crowned by wreaths and streaks and spouts of flame. The stores

were either ashes, or in a blaze which none could quench before the

Turks guessed the meaning of that burning. Long before the fires had

died and before the Turks were wandering in joy among our trenches, our

men were aboard their ships standing over to Mudros.



Some have said, "Even if the Turks were deceived at Anzac and Suvla,

they must have known that you were leaving Cape Helles. Why did they not

attack you while you were embarking there?" I do not know the answer to

this question. But it is possible that they did not know that we were

leaving. It is possible that they believed that we should hold Cape

Helles like an Eastern Gibraltar. It is possible, on the other hand,

that they were deceived again by our ruses. It is however, certain that

they watched us far more narrowly at Cape Helles after the Anzac

evacuation. Aeroplanes cruised over our position frequently, and

shell-fire increased and became very heavy. Still, when the time came,

the burning of our stores, after our men had embarked, seemed to be the

first warning that the Turks had that we were going.



This was a mystery to our soldiers at the time and seems strange now. It

is possible that at Cape Helles, the Turks' shaken, frozen and

out-of-heart soldiers may have known that we were going yet had no life

left in them for an attack. Many things are possible in this world, and

the darkness is strange and the heart of a fellow-man is darkness to us.

There were things in the Turk heart very dark indeed to those who tried

to read it. The storm had dealt with them cruelly, that is all that we

know. Let us wait till we know their story.



The Cape Helles position was held for twenty days, after we had left

Anzac and Suvla. On the 8th-9th of January in the present year, it was

abandoned, with slight loss, though in breaking weather. By 4 o'clock on

the morning of the 9th of January, the last man had passed the graves of

those who had won the beaches. They climbed on board their boats and

pushed off. They had said good-bye to the English dead, whose blood had

given them those acres, now being given back. Some felt, as they passed

those graves, that the stones were living men, who cast a long look

after them when they had passed, and sighed, and turned landward as they

had turned of old. Then in a rising sea, whipped with spray, among the

noise of ships weltering to the rails, the battalions left Cape Helles;

the _River Clyde_ dimmed into the gale and became a memory, and the

Gallipoli campaign was over.





Many people have asked me, what the campaign achieved? It achieved much.

It destroyed and put out of action many more of the enemy than of our

own men. Our own losses in killed, wounded and missing were, roughly

speaking, one hundred and fifteen thousand men, and the sick about one

hundred thousand more, or (in all) more than two and one-half times as

many as the army which made the landing. The Turk losses from all causes

were far greater; they had men to waste and wasted them, like water, at

Cape Helles, Lone Pine and Chunuk. The real Turk losses will never be

tabled and published, but at the five battles of The Landings, the 6th

May, the 4th June, the 28th of June, and the 6th-10th August, they lost

in counted killed alone, very nearly as many as were killed on our side

in the whole campaign. Then, though we did not do what we hoped to do,

our presence in Gallipoli contained large armies of Turks in and near

the Peninsula. They had always from 15 to 20,000 more men than we had,

on the Peninsula itself, and at least as many more, ready to move, on

the Asian shore and at Rodosto. In all, we disabled, or held from action

elsewhere, not less than 400,000 Turks, that is, a very large army of

men who might have been used elsewhere, with disastrous advantage, in

the Caucasus, when Russia was hard pressed, or, as they were used later,

in Mesopotamia.



So much for the soldiers' side; but politically, the campaign achieved

much. In the beginning, it had a profound effect upon Italy; it was,

perhaps, one of the causes which brought Italy into her war with

Austria. In the beginning, too, it had a profound effect upon the Balkan

States. Bulgaria made no move against us until five months after our

landings. Had we not gone to Gallipoli she would have joined our enemies

in the late spring instead of in the middle autumn.



Some of our enemies have said that "the campaign was a defeat for the

British Navy." It is true that we lost two capital ships, from mines, in

the early part of the campaign, and I think, in all, two others, from

torpedoes, during the campaign. Such loss is not very serious in eleven

months of naval war. For the campaign was a naval war, it depended

utterly and solely upon the power of the Navy. By our Navy we went there

and were kept there, and by our Navy we came away. During the nine

months of our hold on the Peninsula over three hundred thousand men were

brought by the Navy from places three, four, or even six thousand miles

away. During the operations some half of these were removed by our Navy,

as sick and wounded, to ports from eight hundred to three thousand miles

away. Every day, for eleven months, ships of our Navy moved up and down

the Gallipoli coast bombarding the Turk positions. Every day during the

operations our Navy kept our armies in food, drink and supplies. Every

day, in all that time, if weather permitted, ships of our Navy cruised

in the Narrows and off Constantinople, and the seaplanes of our Navy

raided and scouted within the Turk lines. If there had been, I will not

say, any defeat of, but any check to the Navy, we could not have begun

the campaign or continued it. Every moment of those eleven months of war

was an illustration of the silent and unceasing victory of our Navy's

power. As Sir Ian Hamilton has put it "the Navy was our father and our

mother."



"Still," our enemies say, "you did not win the Peninsula." We did not;

and some day, when truth will walk clear-eyed, it will be known why we

did not. Until then, let our enemies say this: "They did not win, but

they came across three thousand miles of sea, a little army without

reserves and short of munitions, a band of brothers, not half of them

half-trained, and nearly all of them new to war. They came to what we

said was an impregnable fort on which our veterans of war and massacre

had laboured for two months, and by sheer naked manhood they beat us,

and drove us out of it. Then rallying, but without reserves, they beat

us again and drove us further. Then rallying once more, but still

without reserves, they beat us again, this time to our knees. Then, had

they had reserves, they would have conquered, but by God's pity they had

none. Then, after a lapse of time, when we were men again, they had

reserves, and they hit us a staggering blow, which needed but a push to

end us, but God again had pity. After that our God was indeed pitiful,

for England made no further thrust, and they went away."



  Even so was wisdom proven blind,

  So courage failed, so strength was chained,

  Even so the gods, whose seeing mind

  Is not as ours, ordained.



 Lollingdon,

 June 29, 1916.





THE END





PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA









The following pages contain advertisements of a few Macmillan books by

the same author



 _BY THE SAME AUTHOR_

 BY JOHN MASEFIELD





Salt Water Poems and Ballads



With plates in color and black and white illustrations by Charles Pears



It is first of all as a poet of the sea that most people think of John

Masefield. Consequently the publication of what may be called a de luxe

edition of his best salt water ballads and sea poems is particularly

gratifying. Here will be found one or two absolutely new pieces, new,

that is, so far as their inclusion in a book is concerned. Among these

are "The Ship and Her Makers," and "The New Bedford Whaler." Here also

well-chosen selections from "Salt Water Ballads," from "Philip the

King," and "The Story of a Round House." Mr. Masefield has been

extremely fortunate in his illustrator. The twelve full-page

illustrations in color and the twenty in black and white by Mr. Pears

admirably reflect the spirit of the poet's lines.





The Locked Chest and The Sweeps of Ninety-Eight:



Two One Act Plays



That Mr. Masefield is well grounded in the principles of dramatic art

has been amply proved by the plays which he has published hitherto--"The

Faithful," "Philip the King," "The Tragedy of Pompey" among others. In

this book two further additions are made to a literature which he has

already so greatly enriched.





Multitude and Solitude



Published a good many years ago, before the genius of John Masefield was

fully appreciated, this novel is found to exhibit those qualities which,

present in his later works, have served to mark him as one of the

shrewdest of observers of human nature. "Multitude and Solitude" is a

fascinating story of adventure, having to do with a courageous fight

that is made against the far too often fatal sleeping sickness.





Captain Margaret



 _Cloth, $1.35_



Captain Margaret, owner of the _Broken Heart_, mild dreamer and hardy

adventurer in one, is a type of character one does not often meet in

fiction, and his troubled pursuit of the vision he is always seeing, in

Mr. Masefield's telling, is a story such as we seldom hear. It is a

strange crew that goes scurrying out of Salcombe Pool on a darkening

flood-tide in the _Broken Heart_, bound for the treasure-land of Darien.

There is Captain Cammock, strong and fine, Stukeley the beast, Perrin

the feeble, Olivia beautiful and blind, and Captain Margaret wisely good

and uncomplaining--not a one of them but shines out from the story with

unforgettable vividness. From England to Virginia and the Spanish Main

with men at arms between decks goes the _Broken Heart_ following her

master's dream, and her thrilling voyage with its storms and battles is

strongly and stirringly told. When John Masefield writes of the sea, the

sea lives.



"Worthy to rank high among books of its class. The story has quality,

charm, and spirited narrative."--_Outlook._





Good Friday and Other Poems



 BY JOHN MASEFIELD

 Author of "The Everlasting Mercy" and "The Widow in the Bye Street,"

 etc.



 _Cloth, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



The title piece in this volume is a dramatic poem of sixty pages the

action of which takes place in the time of Christ. The characters

introduced include Pontius Pilate, Joseph of Ramah and Herod. The play,

for it is really such, is written in rhyme and is one of Mr. Masefield's

most interesting and important contributions to literature. In addition

to this there are in the book many sonnets and short poems.



"Reveals an interesting development in poetic thought and expression ...

a new Masefield ... who has never written with more dignity, nor with

more artistry. Those who go in quest of Beauty will find her here....

Here is beauty of impression, beauty of expression, beauty of thought,

and beauty of phrase."--_The New York Times._





The Tragedy of Nan



 _New edition. Cloth, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



"One of the most distinctive tragedies written by a dramatist of the

modern school."--_N.Y. Evening Post._





The Faithful: A Tragedy in Three Acts



 _Cloth, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



Mr. Masefield's contributions to dramatic literature are held in quite

as high esteem by his admirers as his narrative poems. In "The

Faithful," his new play, he is at his best.



"A striking drama ... a notable work that will meet with the hearty

appreciation of discerning readers."--_The Nation._





Philip the King, and Other Poems



 BY JOHN MASEFIELD

 Author of "The Tragedy of Pompey," "The Everlasting Mercy," "The

 Daffodil Fields"



 _Cloth, 12mo, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



"Mr. Masefield's new poetical drama is a piece of work such as only the

author of 'Nan' and 'The Tragedy of Pompey' could have written, tense in

situation and impressive in its poetry.... In addition to this important

play, the volume contains some new and powerful narrative poems of the

sea--the men who live on it and their ships. There are also some shorter

lyrics as well as an impressive poem on the present war in Europe which

expresses, perhaps, better than anything yet written, the true spirit of

England in the present struggle."



"Mr. Masefield has never done anything better than these

poems."--_Argonaut._



"The compelling strength of John Masefield's genius is revealed in the

memorable poem, 'August, 1914,' published in his latest volume of

poetry."--_Review of Reviews._





The Story of a Round-House, and Other Poems



 _New and revised edition, $1.30. Leather, $1.60_



"The story of that rounding of the Horn! Never in prose has the sea been

so tremendously described."--_Chicago Evening Post._



"A remarkable poem of the sea."--_San Francisco Chronicle._



"Vivid and thrillingly realistic."--_Current Literature._



"A genuine sailor and a genuine poet are a rare combination; they have

produced a rare poem of the sea, which has made Mr. Masefield's position

in literature secure beyond the reach of caviling."--_Everybody's

Magazine._



"Masefield has prisoned in verse the spirit of life at sea."--_N.Y. Sun._





The Everlasting Mercy and The Widow in the Bye Street



(Awarded the Royal Society of Literature's prize of $500)



 _New and revised edition, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



"Mr. Masefield comes like a flash of light across contemporary English

poetry. The improbable has been accomplished; he has made poetry out of

the very material that has refused to yield it for almost a score of

years."--_Boston Evening Transcript._



"Originality, force, distinction, and deep knowledge of the human

heart."--_Chicago Record-Herald._



"They are truly great pieces."--_Kentucky Post._



"A vigor and sincerity rare in modern English literature."--_The

Independent._



"John Masefield is the man of the hour, and the man of to-morrow too, in

poetry and in the playwriting craft."--JOHN GALSWORTHY.



"--recreates a wholly new drama of existence."--WILLIAM STANLEY

BRAITHWAITE, _N.Y. Times_.





The Daffodil Fields



 _Cloth, 12mo, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



"Neither in the design nor in the telling did or could 'Enoch Arden'

come near the artistic truth of 'The Daffodil Fields.'"--_Sir

Quiller-Couch_, _Cambridge University_.





A Mainsail Haul



 _Cloth, 12mo, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



As a sailor before the mast Masefield has traveled the world over. Many

of the tales in this volume are his own experiences written with the

same dramatic fidelity displayed in "Dauber."





The Tragedy of Pompey



 _Cloth, 12mo, $1.25. Leather, $1.60_



A play such as only the author of "Nan" could have written. Tense in

situation and impressive in its poetry it conveys Masefield's genius in

the handling of the dramatic form.





 THE MACMILLAN COMPANY

 Publishers 64-66 Fifth Avenue New York

















*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GALLIPOLI ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.