back down those stairs, Mister. We've had too many psychologists and

debunkers around here, and we don't want any more.



_Oh_--you're from the University? Excuse me, professor. I'm sorry. But

if you _knew_ what we've put up with, from reporters, and all kinds

of crackpots ... and it isn't good for Jackie, either. He's getting

awfully spoiled. If you knew how many paddlings I've had to give that

kid in just this past week.



His mother? Me? Oh, no! No, I'm just Jackie's aunt. His mother, my

sister Beth, works at the Tax Bureau. Jackie's father died when he was

only a week old. You know ... he'd been in the Big Bombings in '64, and

he never really got over it. It was pretty awful.



Anyhow, I look after Jackie while my sister works. He's a good little

kid--spoiled, but what kid isn't, these days?



It was I who heard it first, as a matter of fact. You see, I'm around

Jackie a lot more than his mother is.



I was making Jackie's bed one morning when he came up behind me, and

grabbed me round the waist, and asked, real serious, "Aunt Dorothy, are

the stars _really_ other suns like this one, and do they have planets

too?"



I said, "Why, sure, Jackie. I thought you knew that."



He gave me a hug. "Thanks, Aunt Dorothy. I thought Mig was kidding me."



"Who's Mig?" I asked. I knew most of the kids on the block, you see,

but there was a new little girl on the corner. I asked, "Is she the

little Jackson girl?"



Jackie said, "Mig isn't a _girl_!" And did he sound disgusted!

"Besides," he said, "Mig doesn't live 'round here at all. His name is

really Migardolon Domier, but I call him Mig. He doesn't really talk to

me. I mean, just inside my head."



I said, "Oh." I laughed a little bit, too, because Jackie isn't

really an imaginative kid. But I guess most kids go through the

imaginary-playmate stage. I had one when I was a kid. I called her

Bitsy--but anyway, Jackie just ran out to play, and I didn't think

about it again until one day he asked me what a spaceship looked like.



So I took him to see that movie--you know the one Paul Douglas played

in about the trip to Mars--but would you believe it, the kid just

stuck up his nose.



"I mean a real spaceship!" he said. "Mig showed me a lot better one

than _that_!"



So I spoke kind of sharp. You know, I didn't like him to be rude. And

he said, "Well, Mig's father is building a spaceship. It goes all the

way across the Gal--the gallazzy, I guess, and goes through--Aunt

Dorothy, what's hyperspace?"



"Oh, ask Mig what it is," I said, real cross with him. You know how it

is when kids act smart.



The next day was Saturday, so Beth was at home with Jackie, and I

stayed with Mother. But when I came over Monday morning, she asked me,

"Dorrie, where on earth did Jack pick up all this rocketship lingo? And

what kind of a phase is this _Mig_ business?"



I told her I'd taken him to see ROCKET MARS, and she was quite

provoked. Beth still thinks rockets are kind of comic-book stuff,

and she gave me a long talk about trashy movies, and getting him too

excited, and overstimulating his imagination, and so forth.



Then she gave me the latest developments on this Mig affair. It seemed

that Jackie had given with the details. Mig was a little fellow who

lived on a planet half-way across the "gallazzy," and his father was a

rocketship engineer.



Well, you know how kids are about spaceships. Jackie wasn't quite six,

but he's always been kind of old for his age. That afternoon he started

teasing me to take him to the Planetarium. He kept on about it until I

finally took him, that evening, after Beth got home.



It was quite late when we left. The stars had all come out, and while

we were walking home, I asked him which one of the stars Mig lived on.

And, professor, do you know what that child said? He said, "You can't

live on a _star_, dummy! You'd burn up! He lives on a _planet_ around

the star!"



He pointed off toward the north, fidgeted around for a few minutes, and

finally said, "Well, the sky kind of looks different where Mig lives.

But I think it's up there somewhere," and he pointed into the Big

Dipper.



I didn't encourage the Mig business, but, good gosh, it didn't need

encouraging. I guess it was two or three days later when Jackie told

me that Mig's sun was going to blow up, so his father was building a

spaceship, and they were coming here to live.



I kept a straight face. But I couldn't help wondering what would happen

when Jackie got his Mig, so to speak, down to earth. Probably it would

just ease the fantasy off into a more normal phase, and it would

gradually disappear.



One night in August, Beth wanted to go to a movie with some girls from

her office, so I stayed with Jackie. I was reading downstairs when I

suddenly heard him bawling upstairs--not very loud, but real unhappy

and pitiful.



I ran upstairs and took him up, thinking he'd had a bad dream, and held

him, just shaking and trembling, until he finally quieted down to a

hiccup now and then.



And then he said, in the unhappiest little voice, "Mig has to leave

his--his _erling_ on the planet, to get blowed up with the sun! It's

a little bitty thing like a puppy, but his Daddy says there isn't any

room on the spaceship for it! But he got it for his--well, I guess it

was kind of like a birthday--and he wanted to show it to me when he got

here!"



Well!



I guess the lecture I gave him about imagination had something to do

with it, because I didn't hear any more about Mig for quite some time.

He kept Beth posted, though. He even told her when the spaceship was

going to take off and when Mig's sun was going to blow up, or else

where we'd see it. I don't know which. But anyway, he made her mark it

down on the Calendar. The fifth of November, it was.



Well, in September I went back to college, and--well, I don't just talk

about things outside of the family, but my boy friend, Dave, he was

almost like one of the family, and this year he'd got a job working

with Professor Milliken at the Observatory.



You know Professor Milliken, don't you? I thought so. I told Dave about

this Mig phase of Jackie's, and one night when Dave was over at Beth's

with me, he got the kid talking about it. He humored the kid a lot.

He even took him over to the Observatory and let Jackie look through

the big telescope there. And of course Jackie gave Dave all the latest

details on Mig.



It seems that this spaceship had already taken off--that was why he

hadn't heard much from Mig lately, because--"Mig's Daddy sealed him

up in a little capsule, so he won't wake up till they are 'way out

in hyperspace. Because the spaceship will go faster and faster and

_awful_ fast, and unless he is sealed up, and asleep, it will hurt

him something _awful_!" And Dave humored Jackie, and talked about

acceleration and hyperspace and shortcuts across the Galaxy, and I

don't know what all, and Jackie just sat there and drank it all in as

if he understood every word. Dave even wrote down the day when Mig's

sun was supposed to blow up, and promised to keep an eye on it.



Jackie started to kindergarten, of course, about then, and I thought

he'd forgotten all about Mig. I didn't hear anything more for at least

six weeks. But one night--I was babysitting for Beth again--the

telephone rang, and it was Dave.



"Dorothy! Remember Jackie's little Galactic citizen whose world was

supposed to go up in smoke tonight?"



I glanced at the calendar. It was November fifth. "Now, look here,

Dave," I said firmly. "You are not going to disillusion the kid like

that. He's forgotten all about the silly business. Besides, he's in

bed."



"Well, get him up!" said Dave. "Dorrie, get a load of this. The biggest

supernova I ever saw just exploded in the North. Get Jackie over here!

I want to ask him some questions!"



He meant it. I could tell that he meant it. I ran upstairs and bundled

Jackie up in a blanket--I didn't even bother to put his clothes on,

just a blanket over his pajamas--and took him down to the Observatory

in a taxi.



I wish you could have seen the place. Jackie sitting on a table, in his

pajamas, telling Professor Milliken all about Mig and the spaceship and

the little sealed capsule and the _erling_ and all the rest of it.



I guess you can imagine what a week we went through. Scientists, and

reporters, and psychologists and parapsychologists and just plain

debunkers. And the crackpots. Oh yes, the crackpots. And then they dug

up the records about Jackie's father.



They couldn't even let the poor man rest quiet in his grave, and when

they found out about the Bombing, they talked about hard radiations and

mutations until I darn' near went crazy, and Beth had to quit her job.



They even talked about telepathy, just as if Jackie was some kind of

a freak. We had to take the poor kid out of kindergarten. He hated

that--he was getting so much good out of it. And he enjoyed it so much,

having the other children to play with, and painting, and making those

cute little baskets, and he'd learned to tell time, and everything.



And then the spaceship landed, and I tell you, we haven't had a

minute's peace since.



Oh, _that's_ all right! I was going to call them in for lunch in a few

minutes, anyway. "Jackie! _Jackie_--will you and Mig come in here for

a few minutes? A friend of your uncle Dave's wants to talk to you two

boys."











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JACKIE SEES A STAR ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.