at the New Harmony Church over the hill.



In the eyes of myself and my sister Annette Maw was as old as the

gullies which cut up our clay fields. Probably she was about sixty when

I first remember her. She still carried her lean body proudly though

her back was bowed. She had a gift for mimicry and a merry smile marred

by the fact that she had been salivated by taking too much calomel to

fight off fever'n'aiger. This misfortune had caused her gums to recede

and gave her a snaggle-toothed look. Some of her fangs moved when she

ate but, to our eternal wonder, they never fell out.



She had the untiring wreck of a fine alto voice and regaled us with

renditions of bloody old hymns or ballads like "The Ship's Carpenter"

(_And three times 'round went our gallant ship e'er she sank to the

bottom of the sea_) or an endless garbled song about a girl who

masqueraded as a soldier to join her sweetheart in the wars between

"Tors and Highlanzer."



I still have nightmares about those childhood years. The Brown murder

was a recent memory--Patriarch Brown and his blind wife had been

slaughtered by "persons unknown" in a hemlock-shrouded farmhouse half a

mile from our cabin. Repercussions of the trial had hardly died away.



There was talk of another investigation and the _persons_--well known

to everyone but the law--were prowling the countryside, flashing dark

lanterns under doors and shouting threats of what would happen to

neighbors who dared tell what they knew. Paw woke one night and fired

his squirrel rifle at what he thought was a lantern but which was only

a suddenly-flaming fireplace ember. The bullet knocked a newel post off

my bed.



Despite the campaign of terror Paw just had to drive to the county seat

once a month for supplies. Always he promised to be back by sundown.

Always he met some old Butternut cronies--comrades-at-arms in the

Knights of the Golden Circle during Civil War days. And in talking

about how they had outfoxed and outfought the National Guard sent to

punish them for desertion from the Union Army he usually would be

delayed until the night closed in.



Then, as Annette and I lay in our bed beside the fireplace, refusing

to go to sleep because we knew Paw would bring us presents, Maw would

open the front door, hook her bare foot around it and listen, tense

with a fear which communicated itself to us.



The katydids might be quarreling. Or the baying of Mr. Morningstar's

coon dogs might drift through the fall or winter air. A screechowl's

sobbing might cause us to cling together in a shiver.



Finally we'd start whimpering. Then Maw would twist her wrinkled

head back through the crack in the door and whisper, "Shhh! Listen,

children.... Listen! I think I hear Josiah's wagon. They hain't got him

this time."



Often the belated team turned down some side road. And she would

murmur, hardly louder than the katydids, as she resumed her vigil,

"Shhh! Listen, children.... Listen!"



When the hours of tension had set my whole body aching with what folks

who don't know call "growing pains" and when the half-opened door had

made the room almost as chill as the night, we would actually hear the

faraway mournful creak of wheels on the gravel road, the jingle of

trace chains, the rumble of a half-empty jolt-wagon bed.



"Thank you, dear just God!" Maw would breathe at last. Then she would

follow her bare foot through the door and bustle about reheating the

supper coffee and fixing a snack for Paw.



We would hear the wagon rumble into the yard. Next Paw would cuss Old

Nell for her contrariness as he unhitched and led her to the stable.

And at last a great grey-bearded man, his arms laden with bundles,

would stumble through the front door to be greeted by two elves in long

underwear, dancing about him and screaming, "Whatcha got for me, Paw?

Whatcha got this time?"



Usually it was jawbreakers or peppermint sticks. Once, when we sold the

hogs, it was a store doll for Annette and a marvelous steamboat for me

that you wound up with a key and sank the first time I tried it in the

branch.



       *       *       *       *       *



He always brought something pretty and useless for Maw too. And she

always scolded and loved him for buying it. Then he'd go over to the

creaky chair where Aunt Ellen rocked slowly, pat her plump shoulder

and hold out a shell comb, a cheap ring or a handkerchief. And Aunt

Ellen would look away from the mirror--for the first time that day,

perhaps--take the thing in her plump white hand, and smile.



I should have mentioned Aunt Ellen before but I forgot. In fact,

everybody forgot Aunt Ellen. She wanted it so. She had been deeply

in love when she was a girl, they said. But her young man had had to

see the world before he settled down. So he set out for that strange

half-mythical land called Europe. And he never returned.



After she was sure he would not come back Aunt Ellen stopped speaking

to people. She took her seat and just looked into the mirror. I

remember the rockers of that chair were worn almost through from

constant use.



The mirror fascinated Annette and me. It was big--big as our front

door and placed against the wall directly across from the entrance, so

that if you didn't look closely you thought it _was_ another door. And

it had a great deeply-polished frame carved with intricate lacelike

patterns that hurt your eyes if you looked at them too long.



I now know that it was the only thing of real value in the draughty

log cabin. Maw said it was a "hear-loom," brought from Virginia by her

parents, the Whites, who had been "quality" in the Old Dominion before

they migrated after the war of 1812, were stampeded by land agents into

"locating" in the wrong part of the state and rapidly dissipated their

means on an unproductive wilderness.



Maw had made up a song about that mirror. "The Whites, 'tis said, were

privateers when England ruled the waves ..." was the way it started.

And it went on to tell how the mirror was part of their loot when they

sacked and scuttled some tall merchantman.



To corroborate this story we had another relic, a "treasure chest" of

the same dark wood, iron-bound and strong, which was used as a hens'

nest beneath the house. Annette and I crawled under the floor from time

to time to see if we could find any treasure still in it. But all we

ever found were eggs.



After Paw had taken off his overcoat and Maw had put his packages in

the leanto kitchen he would sit before the fire, suck coffee through

his beard and regale us with news from the outside--how Uncle Joe

Cannon's control of Congress was about to be broken, what the Young

Turks were up to, how T.R.'s trust-busting would boost farm prices and

make us all rich again and how they had just found a rusted and bloody

monkey wrench in Brown's well.



At last, tired and happy, with our mouths puckered from too many

jawbreakers, we'd go back to bed. And we'd wake to a humdrum world

which included school, collecting wood, milking our cow, riding Old

Nell when she would let us and maybe going to an ice cream social at

New Harmony, until it was time for Paw to make another epic trip to

Martinsville.



But life was never completely humdrum when Paw was around. He knew

every bird by its call, could lead us unerringly to the best raspberry

patches and made marvelous popguns, slingshots and "fly killers" out of

elder bushes and bits of string. When he tired of such things as the

sun went down his tales about Napoleon and Hannibal crossing the Alps

would hold us spellbound.



Openhanded to a fault Paw had lost most of his farm through the years

by going on neighbors' worthless notes or lending them money and not

having the heart to ask for its return. Yet he was the materialist

of the family and never tired of poking fun at Maw's voices and

premonitions.



Dressed in overalls, shaggy, massive and not always clean, he looked

like a poor white. Nevertheless he had had a good education and once

confessed to me, when Maw's back was turned, that in his youth he had

made a tour of the state lecturing on atheism. And he had an endless

fund of slightly bawdy sacrilegious stories which made May click her

teeth at him and mourn that he would never go to heaven when he died.



Years slip past like water when one is young. We hardly noticed,

Annette and I, that the bend in Maw's back was growing more pronounced

and that Paw stopped oftener for breath when he plowed our stubby

fields or sawed the endless cords of wood which still could not keep

the living room warm when wintry winds swept down from some place that

he called Medicine Hat. (Annette and I used to pretend we were on a

ship as we walked across the rag carpet in the living room while it

billowed upward as air blew under it through cracks in the floor.)



And then one night, after the usual period of listening, when Maw

finally had heard the wagon creaking, closed the door and put on the

bitter coffee, Old Nell jogtrotted into the yard and stopped without

the usual accompaniment of curses. For a while Maw noticed nothing

wrong. Then she slowly faced the door, lips firmly drawn over those

wobbly teeth.



Annette and I, all ready for our jump out of the warm bed onto the

icy floor, watched her uncomprehendingly until we saw that Aunt Ellen

had given over her unending vigil at the mirror and turned her head

questioningly. Then we too knew that something was very strange.



As though moved by strings, placing one foot before the other with

obvious effort, Maw started toward the door. After an eternity she

reached it, opened it, closed it against her bare shank in the old

accustomed gesture.



"_Josiah!_" we heard her scream as the foot disappeared.



With a sigh Aunt Ellen rose and waddled after her.



Maw--she was still strong as an ox and could swing an axe like a

man--backed through the door after awhile, holding Paw under the

armpits. Aunt Ellen carried his feet as they brought him in.



"The old fool!" Maw was whimpering. "I knew they'd get him. The old

fool! I told him not to stay so danged late."



Her eyes were dry and glittering.



       *       *       *       *       *



After the funeral--Annette and I boasted at school that the Brown

murderers had done for Paw although a stroke undoubtedly was

responsible--the old cabin never felt quite like home again. First a

deluge of uncles, aunts and cousins descended upon us and insisted we

sell the farm and move to town.



"Josiah would not have it so," Maw told them while Aunt Ellen nodded

corroboration. So they compromised by having a hired hand in to do the

plowing and heavier work.



At the start nothing seemed vitally wrong except the absence of Paw's

explosive laughter and endless stories, plus a growing dearth of

first-class popguns and slingshots. Then, one rainy day when I had been

brooding over one of his dog-eared books--"Vanity Fair," I think it

was--I looked up, caught sight of Maw, her potato peeling forgotten,

sitting tense beside the kitchen table.



I knew what it was that had been bothering me. Maw was still

listening ... always listening now. What I did not realize was that,

without Paw's quizzical common sense to balance her, she was slipping

imperceptibly into that never-never land which had so often beckoned.



Not long after this discovery I awakened, chilled, as the decrepit Seth

Thomas clock clinked midnight. The door was open a crack and I could

glimpse, by the last flickering embers, Maw's foot in its accustomed

place.



"Maw," I called.



"Shhh! Listen! I think I hear a wagon."



"Maw," I screamed. "_Maw!_"



"What is it, honey?" she asked in her normal voice as she came inside,

crossed the room and placed a horny hand on my forehead in one of her

rare caresses.



"You'll catch cold," I mumbled, somehow ashamed.



"I was just listening to the katydids. They sound--fresh, like

spring-water," she lied.



"Don't listen any more."



"All right, honey, I'll go to bed. Don't worrit yourself."



But she did not keep her promise.



Several months later I came home from school ahead of Annette, who

was dusting erasers for the teacher. At the front door I stopped as I

heard animated conversation inside. Thinking it was one of the neighbor

women, who called occasionally to gossip, I rushed in, eager not to

miss anything, then stopped, heart in mouth, terrified.



       *       *       *       *       *



Aunt Ellen was out of the house on one of the chores to which she now

condescended to put her white hands and Maw was occupying the old

rocker before the mirror. But what frightened me was the chatter in two

distinct voices which still continued.



"Maw," I gulped. "Who--who you talking to?"



"Why, with Mrs.--Mrs. Jones here, of course." She laughed although

her eyes refused to meet mine. "Mrs. Jones, this is my grandson I was

telling you about. Take off your cap, son, and say--"



"But Maw," I gulped. "There's no one there. It's just your reflection

in the looking glass."



"Why--why so it is," she stammered, brushing one brown hand across her

eyes. "I was just fooling." She jumped to her feet and started bustling

about like her old indefatigable self. "Now run along and fill the wood

box. Then wash your hands and help me peel these 'taters. I'm way late

with supper, what with having to stop to talk--I mean I must have set

down to rest and went to sleep."



Then began one of the strangest battles in the history of fairie--two

children against a mirror, for of course I enlisted poor Annette

on my side. I tried to explain to Aunt Ellen but she merely smiled

understandingly and patted me with one fat hand while her prominent

eyes fluttered back to the glass.



I wrote a scrawl to Uncle Bill, my favorite, and he left his hardware

store the next weekend and came down from the city with a little

chinwhiskered doctor. Since psychiatry was almost unknown in those days

the physician looked at Maw's tongue, thumped her chest, asked her a

few questions, which she answered with sly humor, and pronounced her

sound.



"I think it's you that's imagining things, boy," said Uncle Bill when

he took me for a walk in the woods after one of Maw's wonderful chicken

dinners. "We're all upset by Paw's going. Just don't worry about

things."



"But Uncle Bill," I protested. "I heard what I saw."



"I know--I know." His lean shrewd face had a worried look, I noticed

with an upward glance. "You're a highstrung youngster. Write me often,

though. And I'll come down every time I can. Say--look!" I could almost

hear him sigh with relief at an opportunity to change the subject.

"There's a patch of violets already. Let's pick some and take them back

to Maw and Ellen. It'll make them happy."



After that, of course, I had to carry on the fight with only Annette to

help.



We tried everything--went right home when we could have been playing

with the other kids after school--got Maw to sing for us by the

hour--read out loud to her--inveigled her into the spring woods to pick

flowers and look for birds' nests. Oh, it was a brave battle put up by

a twelve- and a ten-year-old against something alien and, somehow, far

wiser than we.



       *       *       *       *       *



At first Maw managed to banish her visions when she heard us come into

the yard. Then we had to strive hard and harder to break the spell.



And one day we both became twins!



It happened when Annette and I came home one time the teacher took

sick. It was much earlier than usual and we caught Maw rocking happily

before the mirror, gossiping with her reflection.



"I'm so glad you brought your own children to visit me today, Mrs.

Jones," she exclaimed the moment our images appeared in the glass

behind hers. "My Tommy and Annette don't have many playmates, we live

so far from any neighbors. I'm sure they'll be much happier now."



"Aw, Maw," Annette protested as we instinctively ducked out of range.

"Those ain't teal children. You're just looking at us in the looking

glass."



But the damage had been done. For once in my life I saw grandmother

grow really angry.



"I'll have none of your sass, Annette," she stormed, rising and

straightening her back until it cracked. "Mrs. Jones, I don't know what

has come over my younguns. Now, will you two say you're sorry or must I

whip you right before company?"



Shamefaced and shaken, we apologized to the empty air. And from that

hour Mrs. Jones and her ghostly brats became our constant companions.



At first we hated and resented them, then, childlike, accepted the

inevitable and even made the best of it. Sometimes, so real did Maw

make the delusion become, we almost believed with her that the shadows

were real. On rainy weekends we found ourselves inventing games to play

with them. Perhaps, in time, we might have gone to inhabit her world of

dreams.



But Maw's health was failing rapidly. We tried to ignore the fact

as she did, though it soon became pitifully obvious that Paw's loss

had broken the iron will which had sustained her through so many

adversities. Aunt Ellen more and more ceded her place before the mirror

as she helped Annette and me do the lighter chores and even some of the

cooking.



Bill Pailey came over every day now--Maw never paraded her shadows when

_he_ was around, knowing that the bluff farmer was somehow not to be

trusted with such dream stuff. And the money which aunts and uncles

contributed, willingly or grudgingly, was more and more needed to fill

the gaps in our finances.



"Tommy," Annette said to me one afternoon as we were plodding home from

school along the muddy dogwood-bordered road. "What happens to people

when they die?"



"Aw, I don't know," I muttered, kicking a loose stone with my

copper-toed shoe. "Maw says the angels come and get 'em and take 'em to

heaven."



"But the angels didn't come and get Dickie." Dickie was a wry-necked

pin-feathered rooster that Paw had taught to come when we called, dig

fishing worms for us and jump through a barrel hoop. "I went to look

at Dickie's grave the other day. A dog had dug him up. There were just

feathers--and bones."



"Aw," I said. "Chickens don't have souls. But Maw says that when Miz

Pailey died last year she was there and she saw--"



"We're going to be awful lonesome, though," my sister sighed. "And

you'll have to get up and make the fire every morning."



"What you mean?" I challenged.



"Nothing. Let's run. I'm cold." And she was off in a flutter of long

legs, gingham and pale yellow braids.



After such a conversation I hardly dared enter the house that day. When

I did go in, after fooling around at the barn as long as possible, I

found Maw singing lustily about some man who had gone to the gallows

with a white dove riding on his shoulder to prove him innocent of the

murder of his sweetheart.



"Where's Mrs. Jones and her kids?" I asked, flabbergasted.



"They went home," said Maw. "I told them to. Can't spend all my time

gassing with a ugly old woman like that when I've got housecleaning to

do."



And until long after sunset she made the feathers fly from the old

pillows, beat up the crackling corn-shuck mattresses, sprinkled and

swept the floors and polished the meager kitchen utensils till they

shone. Annette and I, feeling as if we had been released from jail,

helped with a will. Aunt Ellen, reinstated in her rocking chair,

frowned and sneezed by turns and said nothing as always.



"There," said Maw at last as she hung the home-made broom behind the

kitchen range and sank into a chair, looking suddenly more worn and old

than I had ever seen her. "There. It's all swept and garnished for when

the bridegroom cometh."



"The bridegroom?" I glanced at her sharply.



"I was just fooling again, son." She stared down at her big-veined

hands as they lay clasped in her lap. "Must be getting old, I guess. I

just meant that I have a feeling your Uncle Bill will come tomorrow.

And you know how fussy he is about everything being neat and clean."

She rose reluctantly with a sigh, half of weariness, half of content.

"Come. You and Annette get undressed and get to bed. I'll sing you to

sleep like I used to when you were little."



    "You look just like my daughter, sir,

    Who from me ran away...."



Her old cracked voice still had its hypnotic quality and I felt my

eyelids drooping despite my certain knowledge that this night, of all

nights, I should stay awake.



"Maw," I mumbled. "I wanna drink."



Her bare feet padded into the kitchen. I heard the rattle of tin cup

against galvanized bucket. Then she was back at my side again and the

spring-water was fresh on my dry lips and gums.



"Maw," I rambled on. "I don't wanna sleep. Tell me about when you were

a little girl back in Virginia--and the big white horse and the black

people...."



"Not tonight, honey. You're all tuckered out," she crooned, stroking my

forehead and picking up the thread of that interminable song.



    "I a-am not your daughter, sir,

    And neither do I know.

    I a-am from Highlanzer

    And they call me Jack Monroe...."



I woke with a start, those last lugubrious lines still ringing in my

ears.



    "She dre-ew out her broadsword.

    She bid this world adieu.

    Saying 'Goodbye to Jack Highlanzer'

    And 'Goodbye to Jack Monroe.'"



Have you ever awakened in a strange place--a hotel room perhaps--tried

to locate a familiar lamp, the dim outlines of your own bed-chamber,

the tick of a friendly clock? Or have you, perhaps, sought frantically

for a door with your hands sliding vainly along black and forbidding

walls?



This was the same room in which I had gone to sleep. The fire was

almost out. By my side Annette breathed deep and slow. I could hear

Aunt Ellen snoring not far away. Through the open door a full moon

stretched its carpet almost to my bed. Yet, despite these comforting

sights and sounds, everything about me seemed topsy turvy and utterly

horribly wrong.



My bare toes curled with terror as I realized what it was. Our front

door was in the south wall of the cabin. The moonshine was pouring in

through a wide opening in the north wall--through the place where the

mirror stood! And a cold wind was pouring in with it.



"Maw," I whispered, sitting up and rubbing my eyes.



Only the chorus of katydids answered.



But this was spring! Katydids sang only in the fall!



At the same moment I saw a bare foot and ankle etched in moonlight as

it hooked around the age-darkened frame of the opening.



"Please, Maw." I still struggled between dream and waking. "You'll

catch cold out there."



She came partially inside the "door" then and smiled at me. And I

noticed, with the lack of surprise which accompanies nightmares, that

her teeth were white and firm in the moonglow.



"Shhh!" she admonished. "I think I hear a wagon."



"But Paw is...." I began, then stopped spellbound.



Far in the distance, across rolling hills which lay bathed in beauty

and above the fresh staccato mutter of katydids, I too caught the creak

of wheels on a gravel road, the jingle of trace chains and the rumble

of a half-empty jolt-wagon bed.



I crouched, hardly breathing, until I heard the wagon stop briefly at

our sagging gate--we always kept it closed now--heard the rusty hinges

squeak and then the friendly thump, thumptey, thump of the wagon as it

resumed its progress into the yard.



"It's Uncle Bill, ain't it, Maw?" I pleaded.



"Bill's not due till tomorrow, honey," she answered softly as she

shaded her eyes against the moonlight. "No, it's...."



"But it can't be," I sobbed. "He--the angels took him."



"Not Josiah! Angels wouldn't touch him with a ten-foot pole, thank the

dear just God," she chuckled. "He'll have a whole raft of packages

after all this while." She started forward briskly. "I'll go help pack

them in."



"No, Maw! Don't leave--wait for me!" I screamed, plunging from bed and

racing wildly after her receding back.



I regained consciousness to find Aunt Ellen bathing my forehead with

hot vinegar. Annette was sobbing. My face was badly cut--I still wear

the scar--and the mirror was shattered in its frame.



"Maw!" I struggled to get up. "She...."



"I know," said Aunt Ellen in just the thread of a voice unused for

years as her plump white hands continued to apply the compress. "I

understand."



When Uncle Bill arrived next morning there was a great to-do and the

neighbors organized a search of the surrounding woods and the creek

bottom. Of course they found nothing. I knew they wouldn't. Annette and

Aunt Ellen knew they wouldn't. And I think Uncle Bill knew it too after

he heard my story, although of course he wouldn't let on.



The rest of them patted my head and said, "Too bad, poor boy. He's

under an awful strain," when I tried to tell them.



Several months later a woman's body was found in White River, full

fifteen miles away. People said it must be grandmother, that she must

have wandered that far before she died of exposure. Our aunts, uncles,

cousins and nephews had a big funeral at the New Harmony Church over

the hill.



But Annette and I wouldn't go.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LISTEN, CHILDREN ... LISTEN! ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.