bottle was half filled with an amber fluid which jiggled pleasantly

as he held it in an unsteady hand, observing with a practiced eye how

gaily it sparkled in the late afternoon sunlight. Then from the cavity

he also extracted a small whiskey glass.



He took these tools to his desk, poured himself a stiff one, downed it,

flopped into his swivel chair and closed his eyes. _Chicken farms_, he

thought. He felt the fiery liquid seep through him, warming his insides

with its silent flame, bringing a pleasant glow of satisfaction to his

mind.



He closed his eyes tighter and regarded the darkened world with a

calmness that was somehow conducive to rational thought even in this

irrational world. To thought and to sleep, he realized suddenly, as he

found his head tilting.



He rose quickly, blinking off the effects of the liquor, and carefully

returned the utensils to their proper niche behind the volume of Freud

on the bookshelf. _Good old Freud_, he thought, _always knew he'd come

in handy one of these days_. Then he returned to his desk to consult

a small pad, and silently cursed the cruel fates that had given him

patients tumbling upon one another in a ridiculously mad haste to reach

the jumbled sanity of the normal world.



Why couldn't there have been a decent interval of time between them, so

he could take a shower, or have a game of golf, or maybe even hang on a

small one, or see a psychiatrist himself. Or maybe start that chicken

farm he'd been talking about for the past two years.



He jabbed a button, said into the intercom, "Miss Austin, will you

please send in the file on Mr. Charles T. Moore?"--and without waiting

for an answer snapped the machine off.



Fifteen seconds later the door opened and Miss Austin walked in, a

Manila folder in one lovely hand. As usual she was in an immaculately

white uniform. _White for purity?_ he wondered. It was a tight-fitting

garment that clung to every curve as though hanging on for dear life,

and on second thought he mentally erased the purity inscription on his

mind's slate.



Miss Austin had a beautiful walk, and beautiful legs to walk on. He

stared at them as she approached the desk. He always stared at them,

fascinated, and she always knew he did, and she smiled that enticingly

mad smile of hers that always made him want to give vent to an

emotional catharsis.



_God_, he thought, _how I'd love to psychoanalyze that woman! What a

beautiful ego she must have. What a gorgeous id._



Carefully she deposited the folder on his desk, leaning forward

strategically so her perfume could glide over him in intoxicating

currents.



"Will that be all, Doctor Rawlings?" she asked in her honey-liquid

tones.



"For now," he said, reaching for her hand and finding it. "But don't go

away."



She smiled again, and gently freeing her hand, swept from the room. She

looked even better from the back, if that were possible; after a few

seconds deliberation he decided it wasn't possible. But it was women

like Miss Austin that made him want a chicken farm, among other things.

Miss Austin and a little tract of land far out in the country would be

just perfect. In such a paradise he wouldn't even have to worry about

the pecking order of hens. In fact, he might even get engrossed in

raising things other than chickens.



Sighing again, he studied the folder before him, which did not take

very long. The patient was still quite young even though he had already

made a mark of sorts on the world. A theoretical mathematician,

apparently. Probably thought himself a square circle on an adding

machine. The psychiatrist browsed through the folder's contents again,

then jabbed the buzzer.



"You can send Mr. Moore in now," he said and snapped the intercom off

before Miss Austin could answer. The present moment was no time to be

distracted.



Dr. Rawlings held his head in his hands and stared morosely at the

desk. Then he picked up a pencil and began tapping it against an

inkwell. An incongruous thought surely, pencil and inkwell--what would

Freud say about that?



He decided in the same thought that he didn't give a particular damn

what Freud thought about inkwells. There were times in fact when he

didn't care what Freud thought about anything. There were times when

all we wanted to think about was a small chicken farm, with maybe a

gorgeous honey-blonde like Miss Austin to help sow a few seeds.



He looked out the window at the sky and the tops of buildings, and

recalled with bitterness the patient who had claimed that he could

fly, and who had tried to jump to the street forty floors below solely

to prove it. It would have made a nasty splash, he thought. _All the

king's horses and all the king's men_--Unless, of course, the patient

really _could_ fly....



He looked up, annoyed, and discovered that the door had not opened.

Furiously, he jabbed the buzzer again. "Isn't Mr. Moore here yet?"

he demanded, consulting his watch. "He was supposed to be here five

minutes ago."



"He's here, Doctor," the receptionist's silk-and-satin tones came.

"He's trying to get up enough courage to open the door."



"Oh," the psychiatrist said. He felt like adding something

unprofessional, but he controlled himself. With an effort he shut off

the intercom and just waited.



He looked up at the door and saw the knob turning slowly, ever so

slowly. He watched its glistening facets turn in the dim natural

lighting of the room, rotating as though in the slowest of slow motions.



He sighed and turned his attention to his desk top, where he discovered

he had abstractedly pencilled on the blotter a four letter word not

normally used in polite society. Hastily, annoyed with himself, he

grabbed the pencil and used its erasing head to rub off the offending

word.



When he looked up again, the door had opened the slightest crack.

_Damn_, he thought, _this job is going to drive me whacky yet_. He

recalled an episode of a few weeks earlier. He didn't want to, but

the thought came just the same. Some of his patients had delusions so

logical and systematized it was hard to prove to them that they were

wrong. Sometimes it was hard to prove to yourself they were not right

after all.



The woman from Mars, for example. She had actually believed that

she was from the fourth planet, was really a Martian stranded here

unaccountably. She had told a good straight story, but he had managed

to convince her that she was not from Mars. He had persuaded her that

she was an Earthling like everybody else, and that space travel of any

sort was utterly impossible anyway.



He had been about to prove that there was probably no such planet as

Mars when she'd decided not to come back. That was close to the time

the meteorite landed a few miles away, the one that had never been

found. After all, while not a usual occurrence, over-developed lungs

and six fingers on each hand didn't mean--



The door edged open slightly, and an eye peered fearfully into the

room. Then it swung wide, and the young man standing in the doorway let

out a blastfurnace sigh that could be heard in surrounding offices.



"Come in, Mr. Moore," the psychiatrist said, "come in, close the door,

sit down."



Mr. Moore did all these things with normal speed and in the proper

order, but he did have a tendency to sit on the edge of his chair, as

though he were sitting on a cliff and might topple over at any moment.

The psychiatrist doodled on his pad impatiently.



"Well now, just what seems to be the trouble?"



Mr. Moore wet his lips. His face was white. He said, "I'm a

mathematician. I work at the University."



"Oh," the other said, bringing to voice facts he'd read a few minutes

before. "You're _that_ Charles T. Moore, the one whose picture was in

the paper a short time ago. Something about mathematics, I remember."



Moore nodded.



"Einstein, wasn't it?" the psychiatrist mused. "Something I don't

understand, Einstein."



"It's not easy," Moore agreed. "That's what started my difficulty."



"Oh?"



"Yes, when I learned that any point is the beginning or the end of

the universe. Any point at all, the edge of this chair, the tip of my

finger--behind any door."



"That's Einstein?"



He shook his head. "Partly. Mostly, it's Moore."



The psychiatrist seemed puzzled. "More what?"



"I mean it's _me_, my theory, my calculations. I've proved

theoretically that any given spot can be a jumping off place for

another universe. Do you realize what that means?"



The psychiatrist was annoyed by the question, for he had no idea what

it meant. His one over-whelming, immediate desire was to start a

chicken farm.



"Just what does it mean?" he compromised.



"It means that if we can develop this commercially, space travel to the

farthest star will be as easy as walking across the street."



Dr. Rawlings' annoyance rose higher at this. Space travel again, after

only a few weeks ago he had convinced a woman from Mars that such

things were impossible. Oh, well.



"This is very interesting," he lied, "but--ah--just what is the nature

of your difficulty?"



"My ideas used to be _only_ theoretical," Moore told him. "But through

some quirk of fate I've advanced beyond that stage to a point where I'm

actually capable of crossing the barrier."



The psychiatrist nodded. "You mean you think you can actually do this?"



Moore shook his head emphatically. "I mean I _have_ done it," he

insisted. "Mind control."



"I see," the doctor said. On his pad he wrote 'hallucinations,'

although he was jumping the gun slightly on that. Still, he felt sure

of himself, and the pencil still had some eraser left on it. Under the

word he drew a crude and rather vulgar picture of a rooster chasing a

hen.



"That's why I came to you, Dr. Rawlings," Moore went on. "It's not that

I'm neurotic or anything. It's just that I can't control this power,

and I'd like to." He shuddered slightly. "_I'd better._"



"And you want me to help you," the psychiatrist said. "Which, of

course, I'll be only too happy to do. But first, do you have any

outward signs that you have--eh--crossed the barrier. That is, do

you--well, see things, for example."



"Yes, I do," Moore said, remembering, and the psychiatrist pencilled

two triumphant lines beneath the word 'hallucinations' on his deskpad.

"It began about two weeks after I first made my mathematical discovery.

I was lying awake in bed thinking of my theories and how, if ever they

could be applied directly to the physical world, doors would be opened

to any part of the universe. Just about then a knock came at the door."



The psychiatrist nodded. "What time was this?"



"About three in the morning," Moore said. "I got up, put on a robe and

went to answer it, wondering who it could be at that time. I opened the

door and there in the hall was a baby in a basket."



"A baby?" queried the psychiatrist. "In a basket? Are you sure?"



Moore nodded. "And I noticed something else unusual. Out there it was

Mars!"



"Out there? Out where?"



"Out in the hall. It wasn't the hall in my apartment building, it was

some other hall, and through a window I could see a red desert and

canals. There isn't a red desert where I live, or any desert at all.

There are no canals either. It was Mars."



"I see," the psychiatrist said, and he drew a thick ellipse around the

word on his pad. "Then what happened?"



"I was scared, but I couldn't leave a baby out there in the hall like

that. So I picked it up, basket and all, and took it into my room and

closed the door. And then--" He gulped and looked out the window at the

sky and the tops of buildings. "Here's where the part comes in that's

hard to believe."



"Yes? Go on," the psychiatrist prompted.



"The baby turned into a full-grown woman," Moore said.



Despite himself, the psychiatrist felt his eyebrows arch. Well, this

was certainly a new one. "You say the baby turned into a full-grown

woman. Er--ah--clothed?"



Moore reddened and stared at the floor. "No," he said. "I was scared.

And embarrassed. Here I am a bachelor, and there was a nude woman in my

apartment. How could I explain that to the landlady? Anyway, I threw

open the door again, but this time the hall was different. It was like

it was before--on Earth, I mean, instead of on Mars."



"Very interesting," the psychiatrist said, mentally picturing the

situation and temporarily forgetting chicken farms. He wondered how

Miss Austin would look _au naturel_. "Did you do anything? That is,

anything--ah--well, anything at all?"



"I didn't know what to do," Moore said. "She looked about as surprised

as I was, but not nearly as embarrassed. I closed the door again and

tried to figure out what to do."



Despite himself, the psychiatrist was interested. "And did you?"



"I had to do something. She didn't know where she was, who she was,

or how she'd gotten here. I told her that I thought she came from the

planet Mars, and that there was evidently some sort of time stress in

the field I'd constructed accidentally since she appeared to be only a

child a few minutes before, and that it was my fault, and I'd try to

help her.



"I tried to bring back Mars," he went on, "but I found I couldn't.

In fact, I discovered that these things were evidently accidental,

depending upon a frame of mind or something. Anyway, I slept on the

couch that night, went out the next day and bought her some clothes at

a store in town."



"Was she--er--constructed like Earth women," the psychiatrist asked,

at a sudden thought.



Moore blushed. "Yes," he said, "very definitely like Earth women.

Except for one thing--she had six fingers on each hand."



The psychiatrist had been toying with the pencil. At that revelation he

froze briefly. Then he tried to laugh it off mentally. No, it couldn't

be.



"Weeks passed, and she didn't appear to be able to get adjusted," Moore

said. "That's when I suggested she go to you."



Dr. Rawlings dropped the pencil completely. "The woman from Mars," he

exclaimed. "_You_ sent her here?"



Moore nodded soberly. "Yes, and I'd like to get her back. I'm in love

with her."



"I haven't got her." He began to wish he did.



"I know. She was picked up in a rocket ship. Everyone else around here

thinks it was a meteorite, but she told me before she left that they'd

traced her by brainwaves or something, and would pick her up."



"And just what do you expect me to do?" the psychiatrist wanted to

know. He picked up the pencil and made black lines over the 'h' in

'hallucinations.'



"I want you to help me discover what frame of mind must be cultivated

to recreate Mars. I've got a hunch it's a subconscious problem. I've

been accidentally creating all sorts of alien worlds behind doors when

I least expect them. That's why I hesitated outside your office, to

make certain when I opened the door the office would really be here.



"Why, only last week I opened a door to the men's rest room at the

University and found myself staring down into the Great Nebula in

Andromeda. If I'd stepped through...." He shuddered. "I don't know if

going through would change me, but if I ever see Mars again--"



"Well, I think we can help you there," the psychiatrist told him.

"Suppose you come around Wednesday, at two o'clock. That satisfactory?"



       *       *       *       *       *



Moore rose, smiling. "Fine," he said. "And thanks a lot, doctor. You'll

never know how much this means to me."



"Quite all right, quite all right. See you Wednesday."



Moore went to the door, opened it, went through to the outer office.



Well, thank goodness that was over. The psychiatrist breathed a sigh of

relief. One of these days that chicken farm was going to be a reality.

If this kept up....



He pressed a button on the intercom. "When's the next patient, Miss

Austin?"



"Not until tomorrow, Dr. Rawlings," she cooed. "You have plenty of time

for Mr. Moore yet."



"Plenty of time for--What are you talking about? He went through that

door about a minute ago."



The receptionist was silent for a minute, then she said, "He couldn't

have. No one's come out of your office. I've been here all the time."



The psychiatrist flicked off the intercom. For a moment he stared out

the window at the sky and the building tops. Then he went to the door,

knelt, and saw a small amount of red sand, just a few grains that might

have been kicked under the door by someone in a hurry.



He returned to Freud on the shelf, located the bottle and the glass,

and poured himself a stiff one without waiting to transport the

equipment to the desk. Then he went to the desk, and flipped on the

intercom again.



"Miss Austin, do you like chicken farms?" he said.



"I love them, doctor," the honey voice answered. "But--"



"Never mind," he told her. "Just come in here. I've got a question to

ask you."



He poured himself another drink.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK OFFICE CALL ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.