give the countersign. What? You don't know it? I thought not! Then

take_ that, _you dirty Nazi spy, you! And that, and_ that, _and_

THAT!")



"_Mister_ Pettigrew!"



The daydream of Peter Pettigrew, student Air Warden, popped like

a penny balloon. He started from his bench, pale eyes blinking

bewilderedly. The enemy agent had disappeared. This was no blacked-out

and vital defense zone, no strategically important military objective,

but the warm, bright, all-too-familiar lecture room of the city Armory.

All about him, giggling at his confusion, sat his fellow students, more

than four score strong. Glaring at him wrathfully was the regular Army

non-com assigned to training this volunteer brigade.



"Well, Mr. Pettigrew," repeated Sergeant McCurdle in acid tones, "if

you've _quite_ finished your little nap--?"



"Y-yes, sir!" gulped Peter Pettigrew apologetically. "I--I'm sorry,

sir. I must have dozed off."



"In the Army," growled McCurdle ominously, "soldiers who doze off

wake up in the clink! I'd like to see you--But never mind that now.

Before you were so rudely awakened, Mr. Pettigrew, we were discussing

bomb defense. Now, suppose _you_ tell us the proper way of handling

an incendiary bomb. Let's assume you are guarding a wooden warehouse

filled with highly inflammable military stores.



"An incendiary shell scores a direct hit; concussion knocks you out

momentarily. When you come to, you learn that the bomb has exploded and

is scattering gouts of flame around the building. What do you do?"



"I--er--I run to the water-hose," said Peter, "and turn the nozzle to

fine spray--"



"The water system is broken," said Sergeant McCurdle helpfully.

"_Saboteurs_ have slashed the hose to ribbons."



"Then I--I get buckets and sand, and--"



"Fifth columnists," challenged McCurdle, "have mixed gunpowder into the

sand."



"Oh!" said Peter Pettigrew bleakly. "They have? In that case, I--I call

the fire department, send out a general alarm, and attempt to fight a

delaying action until help gets there. With chemicals, perhaps, or--"



"The fire extinguishers," howled McCurdle gleefully, "have been diluted

with soda pop! The alarm siren was stolen by Quislings! The telephone

wires are cut! The force of the explosion broke the windows, and wind

is fanning the blaze!



"The floor is scorching beneath your feet, the walls are ablaze,

tongues of flame are licking at precious boxes of _matériel_! Think,

Mr. Pettigrew! Think hard! Many lives and much valuable property depend

on your prompt action. What do you do? What is the first thing your

hand must seek?"



       *       *       *       *       *



The room was warm, but a cold perspiration moistened Peter Pettigrew's

brow. His eyes roved, his collar strangled him. His tongue was a wad of

cotton.



"Why--er--" he muttered feverishly.



"_Wrong!_" Sergeant McCurdle seized the word, worried it as a terrier

worries a rubber bone. "_Never_ wire! Wire is the last thing you should

touch, Pettigrew. Under conditions such as those described, wire would

be melting-hot. It would burn the flesh off your bones!



"No--" He stared at the smaller man disdainfully--"No, Mr. Pettigrew, I

fear you would be of no use in an emergency of this nature. As a matter

of fact, I don't think you belong in this group. Some men, Pettigrew,

simply don't fit. You seem to be one of them. Why don't you drop out?

Turn in your uniform and enter some other branch of civilian service?

Canteen work, for instance, or knitting sweaters--?"



Someone behind Peter Pettigrew tittered, and someone else muttered,

"That's right! If a man can't do a man's work he ought to--" Peter's

lower lip trembled, and the stalwart figure of Sergeant McCurdle danced

before his eyes. He shook his head doggedly.



"But--but I _like_ this work, Sergeant. I _want_ to be an Air Raid

Warden."



McCurdle's shrug was eloquent.



"Well, it's Uncle Sam's headache. If you persist in wasting the

government's time and money, I can't prevent it." To the others he

said, "That's all for tonight, folks. We're having a practice blackout

at midnight, remember. City-wide. Every Warden must be at his post by

then. You all know where your locations are? All right--hop to 'em! Eh?

What? Oh, _you_ again, Pettigrew? Well, what do you want now?"



"Excuse me, sir," said Peter meekly, "but--what was my mistake? What

_was_ the first thing I should have done?"



"Done?" thundered Sergeant McCurdle. "Why, any fool knows you should

have--er--er--" His brows furrowed, then cleared miraculously. "Don't

try to make _me_ do your thinking for you, Pettigrew! That's _your_

assignment, not mine. Think it out. And see that you've arrived at the

correct answer by our next meeting. All right--class dismissed!"



       *       *       *       *       *



"No hose," said Peter Pettigrew to himself, "no sand or siren or

telephone. Fire spreading rapidly. Warehouse is filled with inflammable

supplies--Oh, it's no use! McCurdle was right. I guess I'm just a--a

misfit!"



The last word came out "mzzglmmp," punctuated, as it was, by something

suspiciously akin to a sigh ... or a sob.



There is an estimated total of two hundred and sixty thousand volunteer

Air Raid Wardens now training for civilian defense duty in the United

States. Of this number, about two hundred and fifty-nine thousand, nine

hundred and ninety-nine had greater aptitude for their jobs than did

Peter Pettigrew.



Two strikes had been called on this unhappy child of misfortune, and

the Celestial Umpire's arm was already rising on the third, when Peter

wailed entrance into this mad world. To begin with, as a specimen

of manhood Peter Pettigrew was a washout. Padded shoulders helped

conceal his spindling frame and built-up heels added a futile inch to

his diminutive stature, but no aids, mechanical or sartorial, could

ever remove the anemic pallor from his complexion, lend distinction

to an unruly fuzz of taffy-colored hair, or cleanse his eyes of the

pathetic wistfulness which mirrored his personality. Peter's physical

counterpart was the photo labelled _Before_ in the "BE STRONG LIKE ME!"

ads.



Moreover, Peter was shy. Terribly, horribly, inconceivably shy of

everything and anything that walked, swam, or flew on, under, or above

the surface of the earth. He gulped when he talked, and never raised

his voice to a degree louder than a timid bleat. Strangers frightened

him ... acquaintances embarrassed him ... and he had no friends. He

turned every hue of the rainbow when so much as noticed by members of

the fair sex, and ate always in cafeterias in order to avoid the dread

task of ordering from a waitress.



His position in life was just what you might expect; he was the

smallest imaginable cog in an organization so huge that to all save his

immediate clerical companions he was but another name on the payroll.



He earned enough to live and eat and visit a theatre once a week

and support a second cousin in Oregon whom he had never seen in his

life, but whose demanding letters threw him into a perfect frenzy of

obligation. He dressed soberly, let subway guards shove him around

without protest, and permitted himself nothing more highly intoxicant

than an occasional Dr. Zipper.



Thus Peter Pettigrew. Or thus, to be more accurate, the Peter Pettigrew

who slipped his brief and unobtrusive way before the public eye.



       *       *       *       *       *



But--there was _another_ Peter Pettigrew! An unknown and unsuspected

Peter Pettigrew in whose veins raced the fire of heroes, behind whose

mild and tawny eyes burned slumbering volcanoes. This was the man--the

laughing, taunting, daring champion of derring-do--whom Peter dreamed

himself to be. A questing knight with thews of steel and agile mind

and tongue of rapier wit. This was the man whom Peter was when, in

dead of night, his meagre body tossing restlessly on bunchy kapok, his

untrammeled soul rode the magic highways of Dream-world in search of

dark adventure. This man was Peter when, blackness engulfing a lean,

tense figure straining forward in his movie seat, Peter's hungry heart

followed a shaft of silver brilliance to identify itself with whatever

solitary soul was worst beset by the encroaching forces of evil.



This was the strange, new Peter Pettigrew who _now_, a sliver of

darkness in the shadow of a doorway, now smiled and hurled defiance at

the hordes of foes arraigned against him.



"_So!_" hissed Peter mockingly. "_So! You think you'd like to blow

up the Armory, would you? Well, we'll see about that, you dirty,

sneaky old Japs, you! Brrrp-brrrp-brrrp_--" His small frame trembled

with excitement as he swept the gray street with imaginary Tommy-gun

fire--"_there's no use crying for mercy now!_" laughed Peter

triumphantly. "_You should have thought of that before you attacked

us! Oh, it's_ knives _now? No, you don't! Remember Pearl Harbor!

Brrrrrrp_--"



"Cut out that damned racket! Stop it!" The roaring voice sheared a

path through Peter's concentration, dealing a sudden end to his tiny,

private drama. "What the hell do you think you're doing, anyhow?

Who--Oh! I might have known!"



Only gloom masked the sick mantle of Peter's crimson embarrassment.

His heart within him shriveled to the size of a raisin, and leaden

butterflies fluttered in his stomach.



"H-hello, Sergeant McCurdle," he ventured weakly.



The Army man, more fiercely militant than ever, with his Colt .44 an

ugly lump at his thigh, his gas mask over his shoulder, glared at the

little volunteer malevolently.



"What in blazes is the meaning of all this noise and confusion,

Pettigrew? Don't you know--?"



"I was--I was just pretending, sir," writhed Peter.



"Pretending what? Pretending to be a steam calliope or something?

Anyhow, Pettigrew--" A sudden thought struck the non-com; he scowled

at his wristwatch. "It's two minutes before twelve! Why are you still

snooping around the Armory? Why aren't you at your post?"



"I--" began Peter. "I--"



       *       *       *       *       *



"Never mind," interrupted McCurdle. "Never mind the alibis, Pettigrew.

Disobedience of orders in an emergency--that's enough for me! You can

turn in your uniform _now_! And goodbye, Mr. Pettigrew!"



"B-but--" faltered Peter.



"And," appended Sergeant McCurdle, "good riddance!"



"B-but this _is_ my post, Sergeant!" wailed Peter. "I was assigned to

guard this sector during the trial blackout!"



"Y-you _what_?" This time it was McCurdle whose voice cracked on a

dismal note.



"I was assigned to guard this sector, sir--"



"Don't repeat, Pettigrew!" The baffled topkick gave vent to a groan.

"I heard you the first time. _You!_ On duty at this post! Of all the

muddle-headed assignments--Damn it, man, this Armory is one of the most

vital military objectives in the whole city!"



"It--it is?" piped Peter with sudden eagerness.



"Perhaps _the_ most important! Pettigrew, do you know the entire

basement of this building is filled with gunpowder and dynamite? Enough

to blow the surrounding neighborhood to Kingdom Come! And within three

city blocks of here stand the City Hall, the Federal Building, two

factories engaged in war armaments production, and a Marine barracks!"



"Th-there are?" gulped Peter with less eagerness.



"And of all men," despaired McCurdle, "_you_ had to be assigned to this

post. And in less than a minute the warning will be sounded. Well--"

He shrugged--"It's too late now. It's your pigeon. You've drawn your

equipment?"



"Equip--Oh, yes, sir! Right here!" Peter patted a gas mask container

at his side and, rather more gingerly, the automatic at his hip. "I'm

all-ready, sir."



"Very well, Pettigrew. From now on--" The topkick had to raise his

voice to a bellow to make himself heard over the banshee blast that had

suddenly wakened and howled from a hundred simultaneous sources--"it's

up to you! Carry on!"



And as the gray gloom of the city night was suddenly engulfed in

ebon black, as feverish eyes of electric and neon blinked out one by

one over a city grimly readying itself for any eventuality, Sergeant

McCurdle moved into the darkness--and was gone!



       *       *       *       *       *



At first his disappearance was a relief to the small would-be Air

Warden. Then, as the ear-shattering sirens died into muted silence, as

McCurdle's footsteps pattered off into murkiness, a vast, enswaddling

stillness descended upon Peter Pettigrew--and with it came stark

realization of his perfect aloneness. In Stygian gloom he murmured,

"Oh, my goodness! I'm all alone!" and raised a trembling hand before

his eyes. It was a vague, white blob in the darkness. Tingling fingers

of panic clutched at Peter's nerves, and his ganglea hummed like

harpstrings. "Oh, my soul!" he jittered. "It's so _dark_!"



Civic authorities had deliberately chosen a moonless night for this

experiment. Mother Nature had collaborated by veiling the sky with a

thick overcast, making the night starless as well. The street upon

which Peter stood was as black as a whale's belly. Except for--



"Oh, mercy me!" bleated Peter, "this will never do!"



And his panic subsiding in the face of this unallowable thing, he

scurried down the street to a dwelling beneath the lowered blinds of

which escaped one lone, betraying slant of light. Hastily he ascended

its steps, more hastily rapped on the door.



"Lights out!" he cried. "Air alert! Lights--"



The door flew open suddenly, hurling a blazing flood of forbidden

illumination into Peter's eyes. A figure loomed in the doorway; the

figure of a man whose shoulders seemed to stop the entrance, who

towered threateningly above Peter.



"Hey?" roared this outraged Titan. "What's this all about? Whatcha

tryin' to--?"



"--out!" ended Peter feebly. "L-lights out, if you don't mind, please,

mister. It's an--an alert--"



There came a sudden, menacing _snap!_ and Peter closed his eyes,

wondering dimly which arm or leg was broken and why it didn't hurt.

Then stunningly:



"Sure, Warden!" came a husky whisper. "I fergot. I was list'nin' to

the Tchi-cargo Symphony an' fergot all about the blackout. I'm sorry."



And Peter opened his eyes to discover that the house was in jet

blackness, and the big man was softly shutting the door!



He turned and stumbled down the steps. But where he had been nervous

before, he was now aflame with a strange and new sensation. A wild,

heady sensation--the intoxication of power! For the first time in his

mousy life, Peter Pettigrew had issued an order. And that order had

been obeyed!



Self-confidence, a feeling so rare in his past as to have been

non-existent, swept through him like a hot torrent. His head lifted

proudly; he trod on fluffy clouds. He drew a long, tremulous breath.



"Warden!" he murmured happily. "_Warden_ Pettigrew!"



       *       *       *       *       *



Then, as if something within him had been long waiting this moment,

there came to pass the rebirth of Peter Pettigrew. The old Peter died,

and occupant of his body was the cool, cagey, daring and resourceful

Peter with thews of steel and heart of flame.



And the renascent Peter, viewing this situation, was not satisfied.



"Too dark!" decided the new Peter. "Too dangerously dark. _They_ might

try something. I ought to have cat's eyes. Now, let me see--Aah! I have

it!"



And suddenly bethinking himself of the spectacles he wore to protect

his eyes against harmful rays when he took an ultra-violet "sun bath"

every week, he drew the shaded lenses from his pocket and slipped them

over his eyes.



It did not matter that the glasses--speaking from a purely physical

standpoint--could not conceivably strengthen Peter's vision. He

_thought_ they did, and that is what really counts. Great is the

influence of mind over matter.



With increased assurance, he stalked down the silent street to assume

his post of duty before the Armory's portal. And it was then he saw the

sinister stranger.



       *       *       *       *       *



The stranger was hurrying up the street toward Peter. This was not,

in itself, cause for alarm. Thousands of good, solid, liberty-loving

Americans had doubtless been caught off guard by the wail of the

sirens. But _this_ man, who seemed to cling to the darkest shadows of

an everywhere-dark road, made no sound as he walked! He glided forward

noiselessly. Moreover, his diminutive but chunky frame bent beneath the

burden of a heavy gunnysack that might have contained--



What? wondered Peter Pettigrew. Anything! Anything at all, he decided.

Bombs, hand grenades, ground glass! His jaw tightened; he stepped

forward.



"Just a moment, there!" he piped peremptorily. "Who are you? What are

you do--?"



But the sinister stranger either did not hear him or chose to disregard

his challenge. He had paused, now, before the very door of the Armory,

taken from somewhere and scanned what appeared to be a notebook. He

nodded his head pleasedly and turned to the building. The rap of his

knuckles was soft in the silence; the door swung open and he vanished.



Peter sprang into action. This was all wrong! This was his post; if

it were learned that he had permitted anyone to effect entrance into

the Armory unquestioned he would lose his precious Wardenship. Perhaps

even--Peter quaked--since this incident had occurred in line of duty,

he would be tried by a military court, found guilty, and shot at

sunrise!



On legs that felt suddenly hollow, he raced forward, hurled himself at

the Armory door and pounded frantically. A uniformed private of the

regular Army opened it for him. The soldier looked faintly surprised.



"What--Oh, hello, there! You're the warden on duty here, aren't you?

What's up? Blackout over?"



"It's an all night practice," snapped Peter, "as you ought to know. But

never mind that now. That stranger--who was he? Where did he go?"



"Huh?" The soldier stared at him curiously. "Is it a gag, buddy? What

stranger?"



"The one," rasped Peter, "you just admitted. He refused to answer my

challenge--"



"Are you crazy?" The soldier sniggered drowsily and leaned his rifle

against the wall. "Nobody came through this doorway, bud, except you."



Quick suspicion fanned to a fiercer blaze in Peter's bosom. Then his

hunch had been right! The sinister stranger _was_ an enemy agent, and

this soldier in Uncle Sam's khaki was a dupe, a hireling, a Fifth

Columnist! With a swift movement he grasped the guard's rifle, levelled

it at its owner.



"So!" hissed Peter Pettigrew, patriot. "You thought you could get away

with it, eh? Well, the jig's up! Over my dead body you'll pull one of

your dastardly Nazi tricks! Not a move, now! Move a muscle and I--I'll

shoot--"



And his finger tensed on the trigger. But the other man's face did

not draw into the lines of hatred and violence Peter half expected.

Instead, the soldier grinned amiably at him.



"Okay, buddy," he chuckled. "Enjoy yourself. Quite a card, ain't you?

Well--" He yawned prodigiously--"'at's okay by me. I'm gettin' ...

kinda ... sleepy. Think I'll snatch ... forty winks. Wake me up ...

when the alert's over ... over...."



He slumped onto a bench, and fell fast asleep!



       *       *       *       *       *



For a moment fantastically long, Peter stared at him incredulously.

Then recollection of a more immediate problem than this flooded back

on him. There was a mystery here, but elsewhere in the building was a

skulking spy whose plot Peter must nip in the bud.



He wheeled and hastened into the drill-room. No one there but a

drowsy radioman, nodding over his transmitter. A dozen doors opened

off the drill-room. Peter, scurrying from one to another, noted with

subconscious approbation that each room with windows to the outer

street was darkened. Only the inner chambers of the Armory were lighted.



But of the sack-bearing stranger there was no trace. Room after room

was deserted, save for here a detail of slumbering reserves, there an

Intelligence officer cat-napping at his desk. This latter raised his

head when Peter roused him, repeated muzzily, "Whuza? Lil man with a

bag? Uh-uh. Di'n see'm--" and went back to sleep.



Peter wasted no more time upstairs. The basement was "out of bounds"

for all civilians and, indeed, for all soldiers save those specifically

assigned to guard it, but this was no time to adhere to normal

regulations. Peter raced toward the store-rooms, and was just in time

to see, as he found the top of the staircase, a tableau on the landing

below that forever justified his fears.



The little man was there! He was tiptoeing silently toward the

unsuspecting back of a guard assigned to watch the stores. As he crept

he fumbled at the mouth of his gunnysack and--remarkable verity Peter

could scarcely believe--he was humming a soft tune!



Peter knew what he should do. He _should_ shout aloud to warn the

soldier. But when he opened his mouth it felt as if he had swallowed

a throatful of warm glue; his lips were a pair of adhesive plasters

muting a larynx frozen with terror. The best he could manage was a

tiny, whimpering bleat.



It was not enough. The soldier, as though warned by some belated,

intuitive sense, whirled just as the interloper gained his side. But

his eyes never recognized peril, for at that instant the little man's

hand flew from the bag, hurling something squarely into the guard's

face.



And--the soldier dropped his rifle, yawned noisily, rubbed his eyes

with clenched fists, staggered to a seat, and fell fast asleep at his

post!



In that moment, Peter Pettigrew understood all. Now he knew why the

guard at the outer gate had not stopped--had not even remembered!--the

stranger. He knew, too, why every defender of this building save

himself was lost in Dreamland. The stranger's bag was filled with a new

and dreadful weapon. A powder with the power of drugging victims into

heavy slumber!



Anaesthesia! But if that were so, it was useless to pursue the little

man who now, having glanced once again into his notebook--a leaflet

of instructions, no doubt--was moving stealthily down the corridor.

One whiff of the substance and he, like the others, would--"But, no!"

squealed Peter Pettigrew. For a thought had struck him with swift,

encouraging force. Over his right shoulder was slung that which made

him invulnerable to the spy's treacherous weapon. His gas mask!



       *       *       *       *       *



To think, with this reborn Peter, was to act. In an instant he had

whipped the mask from its sack and snuggled it about his face. Sucking

filtered air through its _kobold_-like mouthpiece lent the final touch

of isolation from worldliness--a process begun with the donning of the

tinted spectacles. But protected, now, from fumes and glooms alike,

hand resting on the comforting grip of his automatic, Peter crept down

the staircase.



The door through which the stranger had vanished was labelled POWDER

ROOM: DANGER! in bold scarlet. As Peter drew nearer this door he was

astonished to hear a faint muttering. Peering cautiously around the

door-jamb he discovered this was the stranger murmuring petulantly to

himself as he scowled at his little book.



"It says," frowned the stocky man, "three more. But where in the

name of Hypnos _are_ they? There's no one else in here. Another

infernal mix-up in the O.D.D., that's what! I wish they'd get things

straightened out--"



Then Peter moved. Whipping his automatic out of its holster, he burst

into the ammunition-packed room, shouting a wild and--he hoped--stern

command.



"Hands up!" he cried. "Surrender in the name of the--I mean, stick 'em

up! I've got you!"



The little man whirled, startled. But surprisingly, his lips cracked in

a grin, and his voice was pleased.



"Oh, _there_ you are!" he said. "I was worrying about you. The others

coming along soon? Well--nighty-night!"



And with a movement so swift, so deft, that no human eye could

follow it, his hand dipped into the sack, grasped a handful of the

slumber-producing dust--and flung it squarely into Peter's face!



       *       *       *       *       *



For a moment, sheer shock immobilized Peter. He had expected cringing

capitulation; he had met defiance, instead. It is a different matter

to dream of slaughtering hundreds of charging enemies than to pull the

trigger on one, small antagonist armed with only a gunnysack. So Peter

did nothing.



But the _saboteur_ did an amazing thing. He pencilled a checkmark

in his little notebook. Then, quietly crooning a tune that sounded

astonishingly like a lullaby, he shouldered his bag and started from

the room. Peter roused. His piping voice rang clarion-clear in the

echoing chamber.



"Oh, no you don't! Stand still, you! Drop that bag and lift your hands

or I'll--I'll--"



And he got what he wanted. The visitor _did_ drop the bag. But his

clutch was not nerveless from fright so much as from surprise! A look

of blank incredulity widened his eyes, and his jaw dropped slack as he

gasped:



"You--you're still awake!"



"You bet your boots I'm awake!" declared Peter boldly. "You didn't

think you'd get _me_ with that stuff, you--"



"And you--" gulped the little man--"you _see_ me!"



"See you? Of course I see you! If you take another step, you dirty old

Nazi, you--"



"Nazi!" exclaimed the stranger indignantly. "I'm no Nazi!"



"Oh, no? What's your name?"



"My name," said the chubby one, "is Ole Luk Oie. In some circles I am

known as Noctus or Suom, but--"



"Never mind the aliases," said Peter. "Ole Luk Oie, eh? A Norwegian.

One of Quisling's men?"



"I don't know what you're talking about," blazed his prisoner. "I don't

know anything about quisling. I've never quissled in my life. But I do

know _one_ thing: when I see the Assignment Clerk at the O.D.D. again,

I'm going to raise blue fumes about this! I was _never_ so mortified!

Imagine _me_ held at a pistol's point by a mortal who defies my Sands--"



"That'll do!" rapped Peter sternly. "I'll talk; you answer. What's this

O.D.D. you mentioned?"



"Why, the Office of Dream Distribution," snapped the stranger, "of

course! The outfit I work for. Now, see here, mortal--point that thing

the other way before it goes off by accident and creates a scandal. It

can't kill me, of course, but hanged if I want to go through eternity

with lead bullets in my gizzard. Woden knows my digestion is awful

enough now, what with staying up all night and those brazen Walküre

keeping me awake all day with their noisy war-chants--"



But he need not have elaborated on his request. For Peter, his

hand wobbling like an aspen leaf in a tornado, had already thrust

the .44 back into its holster, and was staring at his captive with

horror-stricken eyes. Peter passed a dry tongue over drier lips. And:



"W-who are you?" he croaked.



"I've already told you once," said the little fellow testily. "I'm Ole

Luk Oie. The Bringer of Sleep. The Sandman!"



       *       *       *       *       *



"The Sand--_Ooooh!_" moaned Peter Pettigrew. Beneath his feet the world

quaked and quivered. Its motion developed an identical counterpart in

Peter's interior. He braced himself to hurl a last rebellious salvo at

this enemy of reason. "But--but the Sandman is only a--_a myth_!"



"Myth your eye!" retorted Ole Luk Oie savagely. "Do I _look_ like a

myth?" He did not. He looked most solid, most substantial, sturdy arms

akimbo on his firmly planted thighs, eyes flashing indignation. "And

that reminds me, how can you see me? I'm invisible, you know."



"N-not to me," quavered Peter Pettigrew.



"That," frowned Ole Luk Oie, "is obvious. But--Ah! Those dark things

you're wearing over your eyes? What do you call them?"



"They--they're special glasses," said Peter meekly, "to cut down

ultra-violet radiation."



"So that's it?" Ole Luk Oie nodded sagely. "Now it begins to make

sense. We're in the infra-red, you know. All of us immortals. And you

humans have been leading us a merry chase ever since your scientists

discovered how to photograph our wave-length. Snapping our pictures at

seances--"



"Spirit photography!" exclaimed Peter. "Then--then it's _not_ a fake?

You do sometimes communicate--?"



"Now, don't get ideas, mortal! Yes, we do; but just for a gag. We never

really tell anything. We don't want you jerks muscling in on _our_

world and messing it up like yours.



"So the glasses let you see me. And the dream-sands didn't work because

you're wearing that mask. Well--take it off!"



"Off?" repeated Peter. "Certainly not!"



The little man frowned impatiently.



"Now, don't be difficult, human! You've got to take it off, you know."



"Why?" demanded Peter stubbornly.



"Because it says here in this book," pointed out Ole Luk Oie, "that

three more mortals are to be put to sleep here in this room. You're one

of them, of course. So--"



He reached for his fallen bag. But a sudden thought flashed through

Peter's brain with the brilliance of a comet. He sprang forward

challengingly, swept the gunnysack from the little demigod's hands.



"Oh, no you don't!" he cried. "That's mine!"



Ole Luk Oie glared at him irately.



"Yours in a centaur's eye!" he snorted. "It's mine! A brand-new,

imported job. I got it just last millennium from the Arachne Weaving

Corporation in Olympus. Hand it over!"



"It _was_ yours," yammered Peter. "But it's mine now! I'm turning the

contents over to the government. Do you know what this is? The greatest

offensive military weapon any man ever discovered! Anaesthetic sands!

Our lab men will analyze this powder, learn how to make it. With this,

our forces can bring the war to a swift and humane end!"



"You," declared Ole Luk Oie flatly, "are crazy! The Sands aren't the

only offensive thing around here. In just a few minutes, I'm going to

lose my patience, human. Hand back that bag, or by Baldar--"



       *       *       *       *       *



What dire threat he would have uttered, Peter Pettigrew was destined

never to learn. For at that moment came an interruption. From the

doorway behind them came a sound that caused both man and demigod to

spin. The sharp, incisive cry of a voice raised in command.



"_Achtung!_ Turn quietly, swine, and lift your hands! _Ach, zu!_ Now,

Franz ... Otto ... to your work!"



Peter's eyes bulged wide, and his lips loosed a tiny moan. For standing

in the doorway, armed to the teeth, stood three men from whose eyes

gleamed the fanaticism of the creed for which they labored. These were

no supernatural and benevolent creatures, but flesh-and-blood men;

their purpose here was evident. The destruction of this Armory and its

stores!



The underling Nazi agents needed no second bidding. With the grim,

mechanical purposefulness of their race, they leaped to their task. One

sprang to the nearest hogshead of gunpowder, smashed loose a stave and

began scattering the barrel's contents about the chamber. The other

ripped open a carton of dynamite sticks, hastily unreeled and adjusted

the wires of a detonator.



While his underlings labored, the leader enjoyed the luxury of gloating

over his accomplishment.



"So," he gibed, "there you stand, foolishly agape as sheep! You wonder

at our being here, _nichts wahr_? Ach, you _verdammt Amerikanische_!

You are all fools! Not only do you advertise in the public papers your

idiotic practice blackout, but you leave your Armory unguarded!



"In the Fatherland such madness would not be tolerated! Our _Fuehrer_

weeds out the weak and incompetent. That is why we will soon rule

the world!" He personalized his scorn, directed it squarely at Peter

Pettigrew. "Little man, you have a revolver at your side. Why don't you

draw it? Is it because you fear death? What? You don't answer? You are

silent? But why is that? You were voluble enough a moment ago when we

entered the room. Standing here alone in an empty chamber, chattering

to yourself like an insane ape--"



"A-lone!" The word wrenched itself unbidden from Peter's lips. Like a

blinding flash of light, the truth hit him. Of course! The _saboteurs_

wore no ultra-violet glasses. They saw no Ole Luk Oie standing and

watching this typically "human" drama with detached disinterest. Peter

gulped. "Oh! Oh, yes. A-lone. I was just--"



"Come closer, little man!" taunted the Nazi captain. "I would pinch

your scrawny arm to test if you are a man or a mouse. _Stop!_ What are

you leaning over for?"



"My--my shoelace--" faltered Peter. "It--it came untied--" But his

heart gave a tremendous leap. For now he knew that the Sandman's _bag_,

too, was invisible to the enemy. And that bag of dream-dust was now

secure within his hands.



"Never mind your shoelace!" commanded his antagonist. "Walk toward me

slowly with your arms raised--There! _Das ist gut!_ I see you wear a

uniform. Tell me, little man, what is the strength of this garrison?

When I make my report--"



       *       *       *       *       *



Peter was grateful for the semi-gloom of the chamber. Were it not

shadowy, the German must have noticed that though his arms were above

his head his elbows bent with strain, and his knuckles were tensed

whitely with the effort of gripping a heavy sack above his head. He

shuffled forward another step. Another. Another....



"That is near enough!" said his captor. "Franz, you are nearly

finished? You too, Otto? _Gut!_ Light the fuses. In a moment we shall

go. Well, little man, speak! Will you answer and be allowed to flee

with us, or will you hold your silence and die here?"



"W-what is it you wanted to know?" bleated Peter Pettigrew, desperately

stalling for time. He was almost within arm's reach of his foeman now.

Another step....



"The strength of this garrison. Yes, I know you call it a 'civilian

defense post', but that is dirty, democratic propaganda. Tell me the

truth! How strong are your forces?"



And then--Peter acted!



"_This_ strong!" he cried in a voice of shocking thunder. And with the

full force of his meagre frame, supplemented by the unleashed vigor of

his righteous wrath, he brought the sack down heavily on the Nazi's

head!



The German cried out once, thickly--then collapsed. The bag split. A

cloud of milky-gray powder spumed into the air, flew, spread, eddied

into every nook and cranny. Franz and Otto had barely time to turn

before it clogged their nostrils, felling them in their tracks like

stricken steers. A stifling sensation gripped Peter Pettigrew by the

throat.



Glancing down, he discovered with horror that in his eagerness to

strike and strike hard he had torn his gas mask loose. Slumber-dust was

now filtering through the crevice, stealing into _his_ lungs, too!



He turned agonized eyes to the attentive Ole Luk Oie. He cried,

"Sandman! But you--you can't do this to me! The Sands! Mus' ... have

'em ... f'r the gov'ment. F'r...."



That was all. He lurched forward sleepily and fell headlong to the

floor. Ole Luk Oie minced toward him gingerly, retrieved the forsaken

sack and studied the rent in its side with sorrow.



"The very _best_ material!" he muttered. "Now they'll make me get a new

one. Oh, well--it was an interesting show, anyhow!" And before he left,

he leaned once, strangely tender, over the prostrate little Pettigrew.



"Well done, small human," he crooned softly. "Sleep well, and sweet

dreams. Forever may your dreams henceforth come true!"



And he turned, but he did not walk from the chamber. He simply lifted

his head in a curious gesture. One instant he was there--the next he

was gone.



       *       *       *       *       *



Out of the dark and pleasant rollingness of slumber, Peter wakened to

hear faraway voices drawing nearer and nearer. Something cold and wet

was at his lips; he swallowed and choked on a liquid-like honeyed fire.

The voice said:



"You all right now, Pettigrew? Here, take another swig of this brandy--"



"Brandy!" gasped Peter Pettigrew, wide awake. "Oh, my gracious,

_brandy_! T-take it away!"



"Sure," soothed the voice. "Sure, Pettigrew. Anything you say. After

tonight, you can have anything you want around here, including the

world with a pink ribbon around it if you ask."



After tonight! Recollection flooded back upon Peter. He lifted himself

to one elbow. He was lying on a cot in the upper drill-hall of the

Armory. About him were the faces of his fellow student Air Wardens,

uniformed figures of regular Army officers; the shoulder propping him

up, the voice speaking into his ear, the face peering down into his,

all belonged to Sergeant McCurdle. An inexplicably altered Sergeant

McCurdle, whose eyes were respectful and admiring.



"Wh-what happened?" demanded Peter. "Ole Luk Oie--did he get away? And

the Nazi agents--?"



"Old who?" puzzled McCurdle. "We got the Heinies--three of 'em. That's

all there were, wasn't it? Man--" He shook his head admiringly--"I take

back everything I ever said or thought about you, Pettigrew. You're

a regular wildcat! Why, Joe Louis couldn't have knocked them babies

colder than you did! Every one of 'em was out like a light. Their

leader ain't come to _yet_. He's as cold as a Labrador herring."



Another voice, deeper and more authoritative, reached Peter's ears. It

was the Commanding Officer of the Armory.



"Yes, Pettigrew, it was a magnificent piece of work. You have done

your country a great service this night. Had it not been for you, I

shudder to think what horror might have been unleashed in this city.

You apprehended them in the nick of time. They had already scattered

the gunpowder, set their fuses. In another moment--"



"Yes," said Peter. "I know. I mean--Oh, is that so? How about

the--er--was there a bag lying on the floor? A bag filled with dust?"



The officers glanced at each other questioningly; one of them muttered

sotto voce, "_Wool-gathering, poor chap! And no wonder. After what he's

been through_--" The commandant ignored the query. He said, "So I am

sending a recommendation to the President, Pettigrew, that you receive

a Congressional Medal. Moreover, if you should ever decide to enter

the service of your country as a full-fledged militiaman, I should be

proud, sir, proud to have you as a member of my company!"



"And now, gentlemen--" With an effort, the officer concealed a

yawn--"the hour is late, and I am sure we are all very tired. Suppose

we--yaw-rrrm!--leave Mr. Pettigrew to get some much-needed rest."



And he trudged away, followed by a sleepy-eyed staff of subordinates.

Peter thought he knew why. Someone had left the basement door open;

mingled with the oil and tobacco smoke of the drill-room was a fine

scud of eddying dust whose nature Peter knew all too well.



He, too, was drowsy again. But there was one thing he must say to

his only remaining companion. "Sergeant," he said, "in the morning

we must sweep the storage-room floor carefully, and send the dust to

Washington. They've got to analyze it. Very important--"



"Huh?" answered Sergeant McCurdle languidly. "Dust? Oh, sure, Petty,

old boy. If you say so. But I don't quite see--aw-rrrm!--why. Hey, move

over, willya? I'm gettin' sorta tired myself...."



       *       *       *       *       *



Thus, planning for the morrow, slumbered Peter Pettigrew, side by

side with a newfound friend. And valiant were his dreams. But one

person--or was he a person?--knew that this was the only dream of Peter

Pettigrew's which should not reach accomplishment. Ole Luk Oie knew

that with the dawn no trace would remain of the Sands.



For they were the Sands of Slumber. Such stuff as dreams are made of....





                                THE END











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PETER PETTIGREW'S PRISONER ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.