drinkers, of Faring town, John Kulrek and his crony Lie-lip Canool.

Many a time have I, a tousled-haired lad, stolen to the tavern door

to listen to their curses, their profane arguments and wild sea

songs; half fearful and half in admiration of these wild rovers.

Aye, all the people of Faring town gazed on them with fear and

admiration, for they were not like the rest of the Faring men; they

were not content to ply their trade along the coasts and among the

shark-teeth shoals.  No yawls, no skiffs for them!  They fared far,

farther than any other man in the village, for they shipped on the

great sailing-ships that went out on the white tides to brave the

restless gray ocean and make ports in strange lands.



Ah, I mind it was swift times in the little sea-coast village of

Faring when John Kulrek came home, with his furtive Lie-lip at his

side, swaggering down the gang-plank, in his tarry sea-clothes, and

the broad leather belt that held his ever-ready dagger; shouting

condescending greeting to some favored acquaintance, kissing some

maiden who ventured too near; then up the street, roaring some

scarcely decent song of the sea.  How the cringers and the idlers,

the hangers-on, would swarm about the two desperate heroes,

flattering and smirking, guffawing hilariously at each nasty jest.

For to the tavern loafers and to some of the weaker among the

straight-forward villagers, these men with their wild talk and their

brutal deeds, their tales of the Seven Seas and the far countries,

these men, I say, were valiant knights, nature's noblemen who dared

to be men of blood and brawn.



And all feared them, so that when a man was beaten or a woman

insulted, the villagers muttered--and did nothing.  And so when Moll

Farrell's niece was put to shame by John Kulrek, none dared even to

put in words what all thought.  Moll had never married, and she and

the girl lived alone in a little hut down close to the beach, so

close that in high tide the waves came almost to the door.



The people of the village accounted old Moll something of a witch,

and she was a grim, gaunt old dame who had little to say to anyone.

But she minded her own business, and eked out a slim living by

gathering clams, and picking up bits of driftwood.



The girl was a pretty, foolish little thing, vain and easily

befooled, else she had never yielded to the shark-like blandishments

of John Kulrek.



I mind the day was a cold winter day with a sharp breeze out of the

east when the old dame came into the village street shrieking that

the girl had vanished.  All scattered over the beach and back among

the bleak inland hills to search for her--all save John Kulrek and

his cronies who sat in the tavern dicing and toping.  All the while

beyond the shoals, we heard the never-ceasing droning of the heaving,

restless grey monster, and in the dim light of the ghostly dawn Moll

Farrell's girl came home.



The tides bore her gently across the wet sands and laid her almost at

her own door.  Virgin-white she was, and her arms were folded across

her still bosom; calm was her face, and the gray tides sighed about

her slender limbs.  Moll Farrell's eyes were stones, yet she stood

above her dead girl and spoke no word till John Kulrek and his crony

came reeling down from the tavern, their drinking-jacks still in

their hands.  Drunk was John Kulrek, and the people gave back for

him, murder in their souls; so he came and laughed at Moll Farrell

across the body of her girl.



"Zounds!" swore John Kulrek; "the wench has drowned herself, Lie-lip!"



Lie-lip laughed, with the twist of his thin mouth.  He always hated

Moll Farrell, for it was she that had given him the name of Lie-lip.



Then John Kulrek lifted his drinking-jack, swaying on his uncertain

legs.  "A health to the wench's ghost!" he bellowed, while all stood

aghast.



Then Moll Farrell spoke, and the words broke from her in a scream

which sent ripples of cold up and down the spines of the throng.



"The curse of the Foul Fiend upon you, John Kulrek!" she screamed.

"The curse of God rest upon your vile soul throughout eternity!  May

you gaze on sights that shall sear the eyes of you and scorch the

soul of you!  May you die a bloody death and writhe in hell's flames

for a million and a million and yet a million years!  I curse you by

sea and by land, by earth and by air, by the demons of the oceans and

the demons of the swamplands, the fiends of the forests and the

goblins of the hills!  And you--" her lean finger stabbed at Lie-lip

Canool and he started backward, his face paling, "you shall be the

death of John Kulrek and he shall be the death of you!  You shall

bring John Kulrek to the doors of hell and John Kulrek shall bring

you to the gallows-tree!  I set the seal of death upon your brow,

John Kulrek!  You shall live in terror and die in horror far out upon

the cold grey sea!  But the sea that took the soul of innocence to

her bosom shall not take you, but shall fling forth your vile carcass

to the sands!  Aye, John Kulrek--" and she spoke with such a terrible

intensity that the drunken mockery on the man's face changed to one

of swinish stupidity, "the sea roars for the victim it will not keep!

There is snow upon the hills, John Kulrek, and ere it melts your

corpse will lie at my feet.  And I shall spit upon it and be content."



Kulrek and his crony sailed at dawn for a long voyage, and Moll went

back to her hut and her clam gathering.  She seemed to grow leaner

and more grim than ever and her eyes smoldered with a light not sane.

The days glided by and people whispered among themselves that Moll's

days were numbered, for she faded to a ghost of a woman; but she went

her way, refusing all aid.



That was a short, cold summer and the snow on the barren inland hills

never melted; a thing very unusual, which caused much comment among

the villagers.  At dusk and at dawn Moll would come up on the beach,

gaze up at the snow which glittered on the hills, then out to sea

with a fierce intensity in her gaze.



Then the days grew shorter, the nights longer and darker, and the

cold grey tides came sweeping along the bleak strands, bearing the

rain and sleet of the sharp east breezes.



And upon a bleak day a trading-vessel sailed into the bay and

anchored.  And all the idlers and the wastrels flocked to the wharfs,

for that was the ship upon which John Kulrek and Lie-lip Canool had

sailed.  Down the gang-plank came Lie-lip, more furtive than ever,

but John Kulrek was not there.



To shouted queries, Canool shook his head.  "Kulrek deserted ship at

a port of Sumatra," said he.  "He had a row with the skipper, lads;

wanted me to desert, too, but no!  I had to see you fine lads again,

eh, boys?"



Almost cringing was Lie-lip Canool, and suddenly he recoiled as Moll

Farrell came through the throng.  A moment they stood eyeing each

other; then Moll's grim lips bent in a terrible smile.



"There's blood on your hand, Canool!" she lashed out suddenly--so

suddenly that Lie-lip started and rubbed his right hand across his

left sleeve.



"Stand aside, witch!" he snarled in sudden anger, striding through

the crowd which gave back for him.  His admirers followed him to the

tavern.



Now, I mind that the next day was even colder; grey fogs came

drifting out of the east and veiled the sea and the beaches.  There

would be no sailing that day, and so all the villagers were in their

snug houses or matching tales at the tavern.  So it came about that

Joe, my friend, a lad of my own age, and I, were the ones who saw the

first of the strange thing that happened.



Being harum-scarum lads of no wisdom, we were sitting in a small

rowboat, floating at the end of the wharfs, each shivering and

wishing the other would suggest leaving, there being no reason

whatever for our being there, save that it was a good place to build

air-castles undisturbed.



Suddenly Joe raised his hand.  "Say," he said, "d'ye hear?  Who can

be out on the bay upon a day like this?"



"Nobody.  What d'ye hear?"



"Oars.  Or I'm a lubber.  Listen."



There was no seeing anything in that fog, and I heard nothing.  Yet

Joe swore he did, and suddenly his face assumed a strange look.



"Somebody rowing out there, I tell you!  The bay is alive with oars

from the sound!  A score of boats at the least!  Ye dolt, can ye not

hear?"



Then, as I shook my head, he leaped and began to undo the painter.



"I'm off to see.  Name me liar if the bay is not full of boats, all

together like a close fleet.  Are you with me?"



Yes, I was with him, though I heard nothing.  Then out in the

greyness we went, and the fog closed behind and before so that we

drifted in a vague world of smoke, seeing naught and hearing naught.

We were lost in no time, and I cursed Joe for leading us upon a wild

goose chase that was like to end with our being swept out to sea.  I

thought of Moll Farrell's girl and shuddered.



How long we drifted I know not.  Minutes faded into hours, hours into

centuries.  Still Joe swore he heard the oars, now close at hand, now

far away, and for hours we followed them, steering our course toward

the sound, as the noise grew or receded.  This I later thought of,

and could not understand.



Then, when my hands were so numb that I could no longer hold the oar,

and the forerunning drowsiness of cold and exhaustion was stealing

over me, bleak white stars broke through the fog which glided

suddenly away, fading like a ghost of smoke, and we found ourselves

afloat just outside the mouth of the bay.  The waters lay smooth as a

pond, all dark green and silver in the starlight, and the cold came

crisper than ever.  I was swinging the boat about, to put back into

the bay, when Joe gave a shout, and for the first time I heard the

clack of oar-locks.  I glanced over my shoulder and my blood went

cold.



A great beaked prow loomed above us, a weird, unfamiliar shape

against the stars, and as I caught my breath, sheered sharply and

swept by us, with a curious swishing I never heard any other craft

make.  Joe screamed and backed oars frantically, and the boat walled

out of the way just in time; for though the prow had missed us, still

otherwise we had died.  For from the sides of the ship stood long

oars, bank upon bank which swept her along.  Though I had never seen

such a craft, I knew her for a galley.  But what was she doing upon

our coasts?  They said, the far-farers, that such ships were still in

use among the heathens of Barbary; but it was many a long, heaving

mile to Barbary, and even so she did not resemble the ships described

by those who had sailed far.



We started in pursuit, and this was strange, for though the waters

broke about her prow, and she seemed fairly to fly through the waves,

yet she was making little speed, and it was no time before we caught

up with her.  Making our painter fast to a chain far back beyond the

reach of the swishing oars, we hailed those on deck.  But there came

no answer, and at last, conquering our fears, we clambered up the

chain and found ourselves upon the strangest deck man has trod for

many a long, roaring century.



"This is no Barbary rover!" muttered Joe fearsomely.  "Look, how old

it seems!  Almost ready to fall to pieces.  Why, 'tis fairly rotten!"



There was no one on deck, no one at the long sweep with which the

craft was steered.  We stole to the hold and looked down the stair.

Then and there, if ever men were on the verge of insanity, it was we.

For there were rowers there, it is true; they sat upon the rowers'

benches and drove the creaking oars through the gray waters.  _And

they that rowed were skeletons!_



Shrieking, we plunged across the deck, to fling ourselves into the

sea.  But at the rail I tripped upon something and fell headlong, and

as I lay, I saw a thing which vanquished my fear of the horrors below

for an instant.  The thing upon which I had tripped was a human body,

and in the dim gray light that was beginning to steal across the

eastern waves I saw a dagger hilt standing up between his shoulders.

Joe was at the rail, urging me to haste, and together we slid down

the chain and cut the painter.



Then we stood off into the bay.  Straight on kept the grim galley,

and we followed, slowly, wondering.  She seemed to be heading

straight for the beach beside the wharfs, and as we approached, we

saw the wharfs thronged with people.  They had missed us, no doubt,

and now they stood, there in the early dawn light, struck dumb by the

apparition which had come up out of the night and the grim ocean.



Straight on swept the galley, her oars a-swish; then ere she reached

the shallow water--crash!--a terrific reverberation shook the bay.

Before our eyes the grim craft seemed to melt away; then she

vanished, and the green waters seethed where she had ridden, but

there floated no driftwood there, nor did there ever float any

ashore.  Aye, something floated ashore, but it was grim driftwood!



We made the landing amid a hum of excited conversation that stopped

suddenly.  Moll Farrell stood before her hut, limned gauntly against

the ghostly dawn, her lean hand pointing seaward.  And across the

sighing wet sands, borne by the grey tide, something came floating;

something that the waves dropped at Moll Farrell's feet.  And there

looked up at us, as we crowded about, a pair of unseeing eyes set in

a still, white face.  John Kulrek had come home.



Still and grim he lay, rocked by the tide, and as he lurched

sideways, all saw the dagger hilt that stood from his back--the

dagger all of us had seen a thousand times at the belt of Lie-lip

Canool.



"Aye, I killed him!" came Canool's shriek, as he writhed and groveled

before our gaze.  "At sea on a still night in a drunken brawl I slew

him and hurled him overboard!  And from the far seas he has followed

me--" his voice sank to a hideous whisper,

"because--of--the--curse--the--sea--would--not--keep--his--body!"



And the wretch sank down, trembling, the shadow of the gallows

already in his eyes.



"Aye!"  Strong, deep and exultant was Moll Farrell's voice.  "From

the hell of lost craft Satan sent a ship of bygone ages!  A ship red

with gore and stained with the memory of horrid crimes!  None other

would bear such a vile carcass!  The sea has taken vengeance and has

given me mine.  See now, how I spit upon the face of John Kulrek."



And with a ghastly laugh, she pitched forward, the blood starting to

her lips.  And the sun came up across the restless sea.























*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SEA CURSE ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.