squatted the kid's ship.



The kid had landed there an hour ago. He had introduced himself as

Clarence Raine, field man for Tri-Planet Pharmaceutical, and had

announced urbanely he had come to make a botanical survey. All of which

mildly amused Cap Barlow.



The kid was amused too. From the _Pilot Book_ he had learned that Cap

was the sole inhabitant of Straba, and he regarded him--and rightly

so--as just another hermit nut who preferred the spacial frontiers to

the regular walks of civilization.



The old man packed and lit a meerschaum pipe.



"Yes sir," he said, "efficiency ... regulation ... order ... that's

what's spoiling all life these days. Those addle-headed scientists

aren't satisfied unless they can dovetail everything."



Raine smiled and in the pause that followed cast his eyes about the

room. It was circular and no attempt had been made to conceal its

origin: the bridge-house of some discarded space-going tug. Along the

continuous wall ran a triple tier of bookshelves, but it seemed that

most of the books lay scattered on the table, chairs, and floor.



Above the shelves the wall was decorated with several three-dimensional

water colors, pin-up girls in various stages of undress and mounted

trophies of the rather hideous game Straba provided.



"About this survey," the kid began.



"Only last month," Cap Barlow continued, unmindful of the interruption,

"a salesman stopped off here and wanted to sell me a gadget for my golf

course. Said it would increase the gravitation over the fairways and

prevent the ball from traveling any farther than it does on Earth."



He spat disgustedly. "You'd think any fool would realize it's an ideal

course that can offer a Par three on a thousand yard hole."



But Raine hadn't come this far to listen to the dissertations of an

old man. He was tired from long hours of sitting at the console of his

ship. He stood up wearily.



"If you'll show me where I can stow my gear," he said, "I think I'll

turn in and get some sleep. I've got a lot to do tomorrow."



For a week the kid didn't bother Cap at all. Each morning he went

out with a reference book, a haversack and a canteen, and he didn't

show up again until dark. Cap didn't mention that Straba had been

officially surveyed ten years before or that results of this survey

had been practically negative as far as adding to the _Interplanetary

Pharmacopoeia_ went. If Tri-Planet wanted to train its green personnel

by sending them on a wild goose chase, that was all right with Cap.



But the old man had one thing that interested young Raine: his

telescope mounted in a domed observatory on the top floor. Every night,

Raine spent hours staring through that scope, sighting stars, marking

them on the charts. Cap tried to tell him that those charts were as

perfect as human intellect could make them. Raine had an answer for

that too.



"Those charts are three years old," he said. "In three years a whole

universe could be created or destroyed. Take a look at this star on

Graph 5. I've been watching it, and the way it's acting convinces me

there's another star, probably a Wanderer, approaching it from here."

He indicated a spot on the chart.



He was efficient and persistent. He watched his star, checked and

rechecked his calculation, and in the end, to Cap's amazement sighted

the Wanderer almost exactly where he said it would be.



That discovery only excited him more and after that he spent an even

greater amount of time in the observatory. Then late one night he came

to the top of the stairs and called for Cap.



Cap went up to the scope, and at first he didn't see anything. Then he

did see it: a darker shadow against the interrupted starlight.



"It's a ship," the old man said.



Raine nodded. "My guess too. But what's it doing out of regular space

lanes?"



"You forget you landed here yourself. Straba does occasionally attract

a visitor. Her crew may need water or food."



Raine shook his head. "I hedge-hopped in from asteroid, Torela. This

fellow seems to be coming from deep space."



They continued to watch that approaching shadow, taking turns at

looking through the scope. It seemed to take a long time coming; but

finally there was a roar and a rush of air and a black shape hurtled

out of the eastern sky. The two men ran outside where Cap began to

curse volubly. The ship's anti-gravs were only partially on. It had

hit hard, digging up three hundred yards of the sixteenth fairway and

completely ruined two greens.



Then the dust cleared and the two men stared. The ship was a derelict,

a piece of space flotsam. There was no question about that. It was also

a Cyblla-style coach, one of the first Earth-made passenger freighters

to utilize a power-pile drive, designed when streamlining was thought

to mean following the shape of a cigar. On her bow was a name but

meteorite shrapnel had partially obliterated the letters.



"Jingoes," said Raine, "I never saw a ship like this before. She must

be old--really old!"



The hatches were badly fused and oxidized, and it was evident that

without a blaster it would be impossible to get in. Cap shrugged.



"Let her stay there," he said. "I can make a dog-leg out of the

fifteenth, and keep the course fairly playable. And if I get tired of

seeing that big hulk out of my dining room window I can always plant

some python vines around the nearside of her."



Raine shook his head quickly. "There's no telling what we may find

inside. We've got to find an opening."



He went over the ship like a squirrel looking for a nut. Back under her

stern quarter, just abaft her implosion plates, he found a small refuse

scuttle which seemed movable. He took drills and went to work on it.



Three hours later the two men were inside. There was nothing unusual

about the crew quarters or the adjoining storage space. But when they

reached the control cabin they stood and gaped.



It was like entering a museum. The bulkheads were covered with queer

glass dials, and several panels of manual operating switches. The

power-pile conduits were shielded with lead--lead mind you--and the

lighting was apparently done with some kind of fluorescent tubes

bracketed to the ceiling. It brought Cap back to the time he was a kid

and his grandfather told him stories and legends of the past.



Just above the pilot's old-fashioned cosmoscope was a fancy metal plate

with the ship's name stamped on it. _Perseus!_



"Do you know what ship this is?" demanded Cap, excitedly.



"I can read," said Raine.



"But do you know its history ... the story behind it?"



Raine shook his head without interest.



Cap Barlow was still staring at the nameplate. "_Perseus!_" he repeated

slowly. "It goes back to the First Triad Empire when the planets of

Earth, Venus and Mars were grouped into an Oligarchy, when Venus

was still a frontier. Life there was pretty much a gamble in those

days, and the Oligarchs enforced strict laws of eugenics. They set up

Marriage Boards and all young men and women had to undergo physical

and mental examinations. Couples were paired off only after scientific

scrutiny. In other words it was a cold-blooded system which had no

regard for what we call love."



The old man paused. "Did you ever hear of Mason Stewart?" he asked

suddenly.



Raine shook his head.



"As an individual he's pretty well forgotten today," Cap said. "I

suppose you might call him a promoter. At any rate he figured a way to

make himself a few thousand extra credits. He got hold of two condemned

passenger freighters and with a flair for classical mythology named

them _Perseus_ and _Andromeda_."



Raine, listening, lit a cigarette and blew a shaft of smoke

ceiling-ward.



"The _Perseus_ was moored in North Venus," continued Cap. "The

_Andromeda_, in the South. Stewart managed to spread the word that

these two ships would be heading for Alpha Centauri to start a new

colony. He also let it be known that the passenger lists would be

composed of couples who were in love with each other without scientific

screening or examination."



"Well, what happened?" demanded Raine with an air of acute boredom.



Cap bit off a piece of plug tobacco. "The rumor spread, and berths on

the two ships sold for fabulous prices. Of course, the Constabulary

investigated, but that's where Stewart was clever. The couples were

to be split up: all females in one ship, all men in the other. The

Constabulary warned them that it would take years to cross such an

immense distance--those were the days before the Wellington overdrive,

of course.



"But the couples wouldn't listen, and the two ships took off. People

of three worlds made a big fuss over them. The theme invaded the

teletheater and the popular tape novels of the day. Newscasters went

wild in their extravagant reports.



"And then the truth came out. Stewart got drunk and let slip the fact

that the boosters on the two ships were absolutely worthless and

capable of operating for only a short time. By then the ships were

several hundred thousand miles beyond the System and out of radio

range. Rescue ships were sent out but found nothing though they went as

far as they dared. Stewart was jailed and executed. That's the story of

the _Perseus_."



Raine nodded and ground his cigarette stub against a bulkhead. "Let's

get on with the examination," he said.



They continued down the dark corridors, Raine leading the way with

a magno search lamp. Some of the cabins were in a perfect state of

preservation. Others were mere cubicles of rust and oxidation. Once Cap

touched a chair which apparently had been made of wood or some similar

product; it dissolved into dust on the instant.



This was the _Perseus_, the ship which had carried the male passengers

of that strange and ancient argosy, but as yet they had come upon no

skeletons or human remains. What then had happened to them?



Five minutes later they entered the captain's cabin and found the

answer. On the metal desk, preserved in litnite, lay the rough log. Cap

picked it up, opened it carefully and began to read:



    _January 21--All hands and passengers in good health, but God help

    us, booster reading: zero-zero. By radio we have learned that our

    sister ship, the Andromeda, is also without auxiliary power and

    adrift. Such a dual catastrophe would certainly argue for something

    other than coincidence._



    _Our charts show an asteroid of sizeable proportions to lie

    approximately midway between the two ships. Under ordinary

    circumstances I would order the lifeboats run out at once and

    attempt to reach this planetoid, hoping that by some miracle it

    will be capable of supporting life. But the circumstances are far

    from ordinary._



    _We sighted them at 4:30 P.M., Earth-time, a few moments after

    the booster went dead and the ship lost steerageway. Absorbers!

    They hover out there in space, clearly visible through the ports,

    waiting for us to open the airlock. There are two of them, but even

    as I write, one has turned and with unfailing accuracy has headed

    in the direction of the Andromeda._



    _Absorbers! What a world of myth and legend surrounds them. Are

    they organic or inorganic? I do not know. I only know they have

    been mortally feared by sailors since the first rocket blasted

    through Earth's orbit. They are what their name implies: devourers

    of life, with the peculiar, apparently meaningless power of

    transforming themselves into a physical facsimile of their victims._



    _One of them is out there now, swirling lazily like a miasmic cloud

    of saffron dust...._



Cap handed the book to Raine who read it and handed it back without

comment. And at that moment Cap saw the kid in his true light: a

cold-blooded extrovert who was interested in the ship only for what he

could get out of her.



Next day, without asking permission, Raine began the task of

dismantling the _Perseus_. He knew he had a potential fortune at his

fingertips, for every portable object he could transport back to Earth

or Venus would bring a high price from curio-hungry antique hunters.



For a week he worked almost unceasingly at the salvage operation. He

unscrewed the ship's nameplate and made a little plush box for it. He

took down the dials of the cosmoscope, the astrolog and other smaller

instruments and made them ready for shipment. He stripped out the

entire intercom mechanism, the old-fashioned lighting fixtures, to say

nothing of the furniture and personal effects which hadn't spoiled by

time.



It was on a Sunday evening that matters came to a head. In the early

dusk Straba's twin moons were well above the horizon, shining with a

pale light. Cap was in the kitchen brewing himself a cup of coffee when

through the window he saw Raine emerge from the _Perseus_ and carry an

armful of equipment across to the little lean-to shed where he stored

the salvage. He came out of the shed and something prompted him to look

forward. An instant later he ran to the house and took the steps three

at a time to the observatory.



He was up there a quarter of an hour before he came down again, a queer

look on his face.



"Mr. Barlow," he said, "what's that thing that looks like a gun

emplacement on the flat on the other side of the house?"



"That's exactly what it is," Cap told him. "A Dofield atomic defender.

I've had that gun here a long time. When I first set up housekeeping

on Straba, this part of the System was pretty wild. Pirates weren't

unusual."



"What's its range?"



"Well, I don't know exactly. But it has a double trajectory that makes

it a pretty potent weapon."



Raine looked at the old man for a long moment. "You probably don't

believe in coincidences," he said. "But come upstairs. I want to show

you something."



Cap followed him up to the observatory and looked through the scope. At

first he couldn't believe his eyes. If he had been alone he would have

said he was dreaming.



But there it was, a miniature satellite caught helplessly in the

planet's polar attraction, midway between Straba's twin moons. He was

looking at another antiquated space vessel; a ship that almost detail

for detail was a replica of the _Perseus_. The truth dawned on him

gradually.



_It was the Andromeda--the sister ship of the Perseus!_



The kid didn't hurry himself, bringing in the _Andromeda_. For two

nights he did nothing but watch the sister ship through the scope.

Then he carefully removed the preservative covering from the Dofield

defender, cleaned and oiled the barrel and made the gun ready for a

charge.



"If I can put a shot abaft her midsection," he said, "it might spin

her out of polar draw long enough to fall into Straba's linear

attraction...."



"Why don't you take your ship up and tow her in?" Cap said.



Raine shook his head. "Too dangerous. I'd have to come to a dead stop

to fasten my grappler and at that range I'd likely become a satellite

myself."



Meantime the _Perseus_ lay neglected save for the tour of inspection

Cap took through her on Friday morning. Cap hadn't been in the ship

since Raine had started his salvage operations, and the old man was

curious to see how work had progressed.



He entered through the refuse scuttle and proceeded to the control

room. The bulkheads were bare expanses with only a few nests of torn

wires and broken conduits to show where the dials and gauges had been

ripped from their mounting places. The place looked desecrated and

defiled.



Cap left the control room and mounted to the pilot's cuddy. Here, too,

Raine's work was in evidence. The old man stood there, looking at the

dismantled chart screens and thinking about the ship's strange and

tragic past.



Her lifeboats were gone and the inner door of the airlock was still

open. Her passengers and crew must have attempted escape in the end.

Had they managed to slip by the Absorber and reached the asteroid, the

name or chart number of which the captain had neglected to mention in

the log? And were there such things as Absorbers or had the captain

under stress of the situation given in to his emotions and flights of

fancy.



Cap had heard the usual sailors' stories, of course. How a freighter

had come upon one of them off Saturn's rim and sent out a gig to

investigate. How the gig and all men in it had simply dissolved and

become a part of the writhing cloud of mist. And how that cloud had

then slowly coalesced into the shape of the six men and the gig.



As he stood there, Cap abruptly became aware of a vague pulsation, a

rhythmic thudding from far off. He put his ear to the wall. The sound

lost some of its vagueness but was still undeterminable as to source.



He went down the port ladder to the 'tween deck. Here the sound faded

into nothingness, only to return as he descended the catwalk to the

engine room. But in that cavern-like chamber he became conscious of

something else.



He had a feeling he was surrounded by life as if he stood within the

body of a living intelligence whose material form included the ship

itself.



Clearly audible now was that distant thud ... thud ... thud ... like

the beating of a great heart.



Saturday Raine announced he was ready to "shoot down" the _Andromeda_.

Unfortunately Cap figured he wouldn't be there to see the show. He had

had a signal from one of his weather-robots on the dark side of the

planet that morning, reporting that a cold front was moving down and

the migration of the Artoks was about to begin. The Artoks could be

mighty troublesome when they came en masse. If Cap didn't want his golf

course eaten to the roots he'd have to stop them before they started.

The generators which powered the barrier wires across the Pass would

have to be turned on and the relay stations set in order.



It was late before he made his return. Dusk had set in and the Straba's

twin moons were riding high when he reached the hill over-looking

the house. On the flat below him he could see the moonlight glint on

the barrel of the Dofield defender, and he could see Clarence Raine

standing by the gun as he made preparations to fire.



       *       *       *       *       *



For a moment Cap stood there, drinking in the scene: his golf course

spread out in the blue light like a big carpet and in the center of it

the black cigar-shaped _Perseus_. There was something virile about that

antiquated ship, something different from the _Andromeda_ he had seen

through scope. It was as if the _Perseus_ were all masculine, while the

_Andromeda_ were its daintier feminine counterpart.



And then Raine touched the trigger. There was an ellipse of yellow

flame, a mushroom of white smoke and a dull roar. Cap was flung

backward by the shockwave. The hills fielded the explosion, flung it

back, and the thunder went grumbling over the countryside.



In the empty silence that followed, Cap's wrist watch ticked off the

passing minutes. The moonlight returned from behind a passing cloud,

to reveal Raine by the Dofield defender, binoculars to his eyes. Time

snailed by. The night was passing.



And then the roar came again, this time from above. Cap saw a great

cylindrical shadow slanting down from the sky. The _Andromeda_ struck

far out on the flat beyond the house. It struck with a crash of

grinding metal and crumbling girders.



For an instant after that a hush fell over everything. And then from

the _Perseus_ in the golf course came a sound, low at first, growing

louder and louder. To Cap it sounded like a moan of anguish, of hatred

and despair that seemed to issue from a hundred throats.



The _Perseus_ trembled, began to move.



Cap stared. The ship moved on its belly across the fairway. Like

a timeless juggernaut it entered the flat and slid out across the

tableland toward the crumpled wreckage of its sister vessel.



Raine twisted about as he heard the thunder of that advancing hulk.

Fear and disbelief contorted his face. He uttered a cry, leaped from

the mount of the Dofield and began to run wildly across the flat. For

an instant Cap thought he was going to reach the first low hillock

that led to higher ground and safety. But Cap had reckoned without the

terrific drive of that vessel.



Was it the Absorber--that strange creature of outer space--which had

transposed its own inexplicable life into the shell of the dismantled

_Perseus_ and now _was_ that ship _alive_ with all the ship's hates,

joys and sorrows? Organic into inorganic--a transmutation of a

supernormal life into a materialistic structure of metal ... cosmic

metempsychosis too tremendous for the finite mind to grasp.



The _Perseus_ came on, bowling across the flat like a monster of metal

gone mad, grinding over rock outcrop and gravel, throwing up a thick

cloud of dust. It came on with a terrible fixation of purpose, with a

relentless compulsion that knew no halting. It met and engulfed the

helpless figure of Clarence Raine and a cry of mingled hate and triumph

seemed to rise up from its metal body.



The _Perseus_ continued along the moonlit plateau, heading straight for

the wreckage of the _Andromeda_. Not until it had reached that formless

mass did it stop. Then it shuddered to a standstill and ever so gently

touched its prow to the prow of the sister ship.



For a long moment Cap stood there motionless. Then, head down, he

slowly made his way down the hill toward his house.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STRANGERS TO STRABA ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.