wandered from his mathematical charts to the sixty or seventy quaint

books that comprised his strange little library. Plotinus and Emanuel

Moscopulus, St. Thomas Aquinas and Frenicle de Bessy stood elbow to

elbow in the somber ebony bookcase, and chairs, table and desk were

littered with pamphlets about mediæval sorcery and witchcraft and black

magic, and all of the valiant glamorous things that the modern world

has repudiated.



Chalmers smiled engagingly, and passed me a Russian cigarette on a

curiously carved tray. "We are just discovering now," he said, "that

the old alchemists and sorcerers were two-thirds _right_, and that your

modern biologist and materialist is nine-tenths _wrong_."



"You have always scoffed at modern science," I said, a little

impatiently.



"Only at scientific dogmatism," he replied. "I have always been a

rebel, a champion of originality and lost causes; that is why I have

chosen to repudiate the conclusions of contemporary biologists."



"And Einstein?" I asked.



"A priest of transcendental mathematics!" he murmured reverently. "A

profound mystic and explorer of the great _suspected_."



"Then you do not entirely despise science."



"Of course not," he affirmed. "I merely distrust the scientific

positivism of the past fifty years, the positivism of Haeckel and

Darwin and of Mr. Bertrand Russell. I believe that biology has failed

pitifully to explain the mystery of man's origin and destiny."



"Give them time," I retorted.



Chalmers' eyes glowed. "My friend," he murmured, "your pun is sublime.

Give them _time_. That is precisely what I would do. But your modern

biologist scoffs at time. He has the key but he refuses to use it. What

do we know of time, really? Einstein believes that it is relative, that

it can be interpreted in terms of space, of _curved_ space. But must we

stop there? When mathematics fails us can we not advance by--insight?"



"You are treading on dangerous ground," I replied. "That is a pit-fall

that your true investigator avoids. That is why modern science has

advanced so slowly. It accepts nothing that it can not demonstrate. But

you----"



"I would take hashish, opium, all manner of drugs. I would emulate the

sages of the East. And then perhaps I would apprehend----"



"What?"



"The fourth dimension."



"Theosophical rubbish!"



"Perhaps. But I believe that drugs expand human consciousness. William

James agreed with me. And I have discovered a new one."



"A new drug?"



"It was used centuries ago by Chinese alchemists, but it is virtually

unknown in the West. Its occult properties are amazing. With its aid

and the aid of my mathematical knowledge I believe that I can _go back

through time_."



"I do not understand."



"Time is merely our imperfect perception of a new dimension of space.

Time and motion are both illusions. Everything that has existed from

the beginning of the world _exists now_. Events that occurred centuries

ago on this planet continue to exist in another dimension of space.

Events that will occur centuries from now _exist already_. We can

not perceive their existence because we can not enter the dimension

of space that contains them. Human beings as we know them are merely

fractions, infinitesimally small fractions of one enormous whole. Every

human being is linked with _all_ the life that has preceded him on this

planet. All of his ancestors are parts of him. Only time separates him

from his forebears, and time is an illusion and does not exist."



"I think I understand," I murmured.



"It will be sufficient for my purpose if you can form a vague idea

of what I wish to achieve. I wish to strip from my eyes the veils of

illusion that time has thrown over them, and see the _beginning and the

end_."



"And you think this new drug will help you?"



"I am sure that it will. And I want you to help me. I intend to take

the drug immediately. I can not wait. I must _see_." His eyes glittered

strangely. "I am going back, back through time."



He rose and strode to the mantel. When he faced me again he was holding

a small square box in the palm of his hand. "I have here five pellets

of the drug Liao. It was used by the Chinese philosopher Lao Tze, and

while under its influence he visioned Tao. Tao is the most mysterious

force in the world; it surrounds and pervades all things; it contains

the visible universe and everything that we call reality. He who

apprehends the mysteries of Tao sees clearly all that was and will be."



"Rubbish!" I retorted.



"Tao resembles a great animal, recumbent, motionless, containing in its

enormous body all the worlds of our universe, the past, the present and

the future. We see portions of this great monster through a slit, which

we call time. With the aid of this drug I shall enlarge the slit. I

shall behold the great figure of life, the great recumbent beast in its

entirety."



"And what do you wish me to do?"



"Watch, my friend. Watch and take notes. And if I go back too far you

must recall me to reality. You can recall me by shaking me violently.

If I appear to be suffering acute physical pain you must recall me at

once."



"Chalmers," I said, "I wish you wouldn't make this experiment. You

are taking dreadful risks. I don't believe that there is any fourth

dimension and I emphatically do not believe in Tao. And I don't approve

of your experimenting with unknown drugs."



"I know the properties of this drug," he replied. "I know precisely

how it affects the human animal and I know its dangers. The risk does

not reside in the drug itself. My only fear is that I may become

lost in time. You see, I shall assist the drug. Before I swallow

this pellet I shall give my undivided attention to the geometric and

algebraic symbols that I have traced on this paper." He raised the

mathematical chart that rested on his knee. "I shall prepare my mind

for an excursion into time. I shall _approach_ the fourth dimension

with my conscious mind before I take the drug which will enable me to

exercise occult powers of perception. Before I enter the dream world of

the Eastern mystics I shall acquire all of the mathematical help that

modern science can offer. This mathematical knowledge, this conscious

approach to an actual apprehension of the fourth dimension of time

will supplement the work of the drug. The drug will open up stupendous

new vistas--the mathematical preparation will enable me to grasp them

intellectually. I have often grasped the fourth dimension in dreams,

emotionally, intuitively, but I have never been able to recall, in

waking life, the occult splendors that were momentarily revealed to me.



"But with your aid, I believe that I can recall them. You will take

down everything that I say while I am under the influence of the drug.

No matter how strange or incoherent my speech may become you will omit

nothing. When I awake I may be able to supply the key to whatever is

mysterious or incredible. I am not sure that I shall succeed, but if I

_do_ succeed"--his eyes were strangely luminous--"_time will exist for

me no longer!_"



He sat down abruptly. "I shall make the experiment at once. Please

stand over there by the window and watch. Have you a fountain pen?"



I nodded gloomily and removed a pale green Waterman from my upper vest

pocket.



"And a pad, Frank?"



I groaned and produced a memorandum book. "I emphatically disapprove of

this experiment," I muttered. "You're taking a frightful risk."



"Don't be an asinine old woman!" he admonished. "Nothing that you can

say will induce me to stop now. I entreat you to remain silent while I

study these charts."



He raised the charts and studied them intently. I watched the clock on

the mantel as it ticked out the seconds, and a curious dread clutched

at my heart so that I choked.



Suddenly the clock stopped ticking, and exactly at that moment Chalmers

swallowed the drug.



       *       *       *       *       *



I rose quickly and moved toward him, but his eyes implored me not to

interfere. "The clock has stopped," he murmured. "The forces that

control it approve of my experiment. _Time_ stopped, and I swallowed

the drug. I pray God that I shall not lose my way."



He closed his eyes and leaned back on the sofa. All of the blood had

left his face and he was breathing heavily. It was clear that the drug

was acting with extraordinary rapidity.



"It is beginning to get dark," he murmured. "Write that. It is

beginning to get dark and the familiar objects in the room are fading

out. I can discern them vaguely through my eyelids but they are fading

swiftly."



I shook my pen to make the ink come and wrote rapidly in shorthand as

he continued to dictate.



"I am leaving the room. The walls are vanishing and I can no longer see

any of the familiar objects. Your face, though, is still visible to me.

I hope that you are writing. I think that I am about to make a great

leap--a leap through space. Or perhaps it is through time that I shall

make the leap. I can not tell. Everything is dark, indistinct."



He sat for a while silent, with his head sunk upon his breast. Then

suddenly he stiffened and his eyelids fluttered open. "God in heaven!"

he cried. "I _see_!"



He was straining forward in his chair, staring at the opposite wall.

But I knew that he was looking beyond the wall and that the objects in

the room no longer existed for him. "Chalmers," I cried, "Chalmers,

shall I wake you?"



"Do not!" he shrieked. "I see _everything_. All of the billions of

lives that preceded me on this planet are before me at this moment. I

see men of all ages, all races, all colors. They are fighting, killing,

building, dancing, singing. They are sitting about rude fires on lonely

gray deserts, and flying through the air in monoplanes. They are riding

the seas in bark canoes and enormous steamships; they are painting

bison and mammoths on the walls of dismal caves and covering huge

canvases with queer futuristic designs. I watch the migrations from

Atlantis. I watch the migrations from Lemuria. I see the elder races--a

strange horde of black dwarfs overwhelming Asia and the Neandertalers

with lowered heads and bent knees ranging obscenely across Europe.

I watch the Achæans streaming into the Greek islands, and the crude

beginnings of Hellenic culture. I am in Athens and Pericles is young. I

am standing on the soil of Italy. I assist in the rape of the Sabines;

I march with the Imperial Legions. I tremble with awe and wonder as

the enormous standards go by and the ground shakes with the tread of

the victorious _hastati_. A thousand naked slaves grovel before me as

I pass in a litter of gold and ivory drawn by night-black oxen from

Thebes, and the flower-girls scream '_Ave Cæsar_' as I nod and smile.

I am myself a slave on a Moorish galley. I watch the erection of a

great cathedral. Stone by stone it rises, and through months and years

I stand and watch each stone as it falls into place. I am burned on a

cross head downward in the thyme-scented gardens of Nero, and I watch

with amusement and scorn the torturers at work in the chambers of the

Inquisition.



"I walk in the holiest sanctuaries; I enter the temples of Venus. I

kneel in adoration before the Magna Mater, and I throw coins on the

bare knees of the sacred courtezans who sit with veiled faces in the

groves of Babylon. I creep into an Elizabethan theater and with the

stinking rabble about me I applaud _The Merchant of Venice_. I walk

with Dante through the narrow streets of Florence. I meet the young

Beatrice and the hem of her garment brushes my sandals as I stare

enraptured. I am a priest of Isis, and my magic astounds the nations.

Simon Magus kneels before me, imploring my assistance, and Pharaoh

trembles when I approach. In India I talk with the Masters and run

screaming from their presence, for their revelations are as salt on

wounds that bleed.



"I perceive everything _simultaneously_. I perceive everything from all

sides; I am a part of all the teeming billions about me. I exist in all

men and all men exist in me. I perceive the whole of human history in a

single instant, the past and the present.



"By simply _straining_ I can see farther and farther back. Now I

am going back through strange curves and angles. Angles and curves

multiply about me. I perceive great segments of time through _curves_.

There is _curved time_, and _angular time_. The beings that exist in

angular time can not enter curved time. It is very strange.



"I am going back and back. Man has disappeared from the earth. Gigantic

reptiles crouch beneath enormous palms and swim through the loathly

black waters of dismal lakes. Now the reptiles have disappeared. No

animals remain upon the land, but beneath the waters, plainly visible

to me, dark forms move slowly over the rotting vegetation.



"The forms are becoming simpler and simpler. Now they are single cells.

All about me there are angles--strange angles that have no counterparts

on the earth. I am desperately afraid.



"There is an abyss of being which man has never fathomed."



I stared. Chalmers had risen to his feet and he was gesticulating

helplessly with his arms. "I am passing through _unearthly_ angles; I

am approaching--oh, the burning horror of it!"



"Chalmers!" I cried. "Do you wish me to interfere?"



He brought his right hand quickly before his face, as though to shut

out a vision unspeakable. "Not yet!" he cried; "I will go on. I will

see--what--lies--beyond----"



A cold sweat streamed from his forehead and his shoulders jerked

spasmodically. "Beyond life there are"--his face grew ashen with

terror--"_things_ that I can not distinguish. They move slowly through

angles. They have no bodies, and they move slowly through outrageous

angles."



It was then that I became aware of the odor in the room. It was a

pungent, indescribable odor, so nauseous that I could scarcely endure

it. I stepped quickly to the window and threw it open. When I returned

to Chalmers and looked into his eyes I nearly fainted.



"I think they have scented me!" he shrieked. "They are slowly turning

toward me."



He was trembling horribly. For a moment he clawed at the air with his

hands. Then his legs gave way beneath him and he fell forward on his

face, slobbering and moaning.



I watched him in silence as he dragged himself across the floor. He

was no longer a man. His teeth were bared and saliva dripped from the

corners of his mouth.



"Chalmers," I cried. "Chalmers, stop it! Stop it, do you hear?"



As if in reply to my appeal he commenced to utter hoarse convulsive

sounds which resembled nothing so much as the barking of a dog, and

began a sort of hideous writhing in a circle about the room. I bent and

seized him by the shoulders. Violently, desperately, I shook him. He

turned his head and snapped at my wrist. I was sick with horror, but

I dared not release him for fear that he would destroy himself in a

paroxysm of rage.



"Chalmers," I muttered, "you must stop that. There is nothing in this

room that can harm you. Do you understand?"



I continued to shake and admonish him, and gradually the madness died

out of his face. Shivering convulsively, he crumpled into a grotesque

heap on the Chinese rug.



       *       *       *       *       *



I carried him to the sofa and deposited him upon it. His features were

twisted in pain, and I knew that he was still struggling dumbly to

escape from abominable memories.



"Whisky," he muttered. "You'll find a flask in the cabinet by the

window--upper left-hand drawer."



When I handed him the flask his fingers tightened about it until the

knuckles showed blue. "They nearly got me," he gasped. He drained the

stimulant in immoderate gulps, and gradually the color crept back into

his face.



"That drug was the very devil!" I murmured.



"It wasn't the drug," he moaned.



His eyes no longer glared insanely, but he still wore the look of a

lost soul.



"They scented me in time," he moaned. "I went too far."



"What were _they_ like?" I said, to humor him.



He leaned forward and gripped my arm. He was shivering horribly. "No

word in our language can describe them!" He spoke in a hoarse whisper.

"They are symbolized vaguely in the myth of the Fall, and in an obscene

form which is occasionally found engraven on ancient tablets. The

Greeks had a name for them, which veiled their essential foulness. The

tree, the snake and the apple--these are the vague symbols of a most

awful mystery."



His voice had risen to a scream. "Frank, Frank, a terrible and

unspeakable _deed_ was done in the beginning. Before time, the _deed_,

and from the deed----"



He had risen and was hysterically pacing the room. "The seeds of the

deed move through angles in dim recesses of time. They are hungry and

athirst!"



"Chalmers," I pleaded to quiet him. "We are living in the third decade

of the Twentieth Century."



"They are lean and athirst!" he shrieked. "_The Hounds of Tindalos!_"



"Chalmers, shall I phone for a physician?"



"A physician can not help me now. They are horrors of the soul, and

yet"--he hid his face in his hands and groaned--"they are real, Frank.

I saw them for a ghastly moment. For a moment I stood on the _other

side_. I stood on the pale gray shores beyond time and space. In an

awful light that was not light, in a silence that shrieked, I saw

_them_.



"All the evil in the universe was concentrated in their lean, hungry

bodies. Or had they bodies? I saw them only for a moment; I can not

be certain. _But I heard them breathe._ Indescribably for a moment

I felt their breath upon my face. They turned toward me and I fled

screaming. In a single moment I fled screaming through time. I fled

down quintillions of years.



"But they scented me. Men awake in them cosmic hungers. We have

escaped, momentarily, from the foulness that rings them round. They

thirst for that in us which is clean, which emerged from the deed

without stain. There is a part of us which did not partake in the

deed, and that they hate. But do not imagine that they are literally,

prosaically evil. They are beyond good and evil as we know it. They are

that which in the beginning fell away from cleanliness. Through the

deed they became bodies of death, receptacles of all foulness. But they

are not evil in our sense because in the spheres through which they

move there is no thought, no morals, no right or wrong as we understand

it. There is merely the pure and the foul. The foul expresses itself

through angles; the pure through curves. Man, the pure part of him, is

descended from a curve. Do not laugh. I mean that literally."



I rose and searched for my hat. "I'm dreadfully sorry for you,

Chalmers," I said, as I walked toward the door. "But I don't intend to

stay and listen to such gibberish. I'll send my physician to see you.

He's an elderly, kindly chap and he won't be offended if you tell him

to go to the devil. But I hope you'll respect his advice. A week's rest

in a good sanitarium should benefit you immeasurably."



I heard him laughing as I descended the stairs, but his laughter was so

utterly mirthless that it moved me to tears.





                                   2





When Chalmers phoned the following morning my first impulse was to hang

up the receiver immediately. His request was so unusual and his voice

was so wildly hysterical that I feared any further association with him

would result in the impairment of my own sanity. But I could not doubt

the genuineness of his misery, and when he broke down completely and I

heard him sobbing over the wire I decided to comply with his request.



"Very well," I said. "I will come over immediately and bring the

plaster."



En route to Chalmers' home I stopped at a hardware store and purchased

twenty pounds of plaster of Paris. When I entered my friend's room he

was crouching by the window watching the opposite wall out of eyes that

were feverish with fright. When he saw me he rose and seized the parcel

containing the plaster with an avidity that amazed and horrified me.

He had extruded all of the furniture and the room presented a desolate

appearance.



"It is just conceivable that we can thwart them!" he exclaimed. "But we

must work rapidly. Frank, there is a stepladder in the hall. Bring it

here immediately. And then fetch a pail of water."



"What for?" I murmured.



He turned sharply and there was a flush on his face. "To mix the

plaster, you fool!" he cried. "To mix the plaster that will save our

bodies and souls from a contamination unmentionable. To mix the

plaster that will save the world from--Frank, _they must be kept out_!"



"Who?" I murmured.



"The Hounds of Tindalos!" he muttered. "They can only reach us through

angles. We must eliminate all angles from this room. I shall plaster

up all of the corners, all of the crevices. We must make this room

resemble the interior of a sphere."



I knew that it would have been useless to argue with him. I fetched the

stepladder, Chalmers mixed the plaster, and for three hours we labored.

We filled in the four corners of the wall and the intersections of

the floor and wall and the wall and ceiling, and we rounded the sharp

angles of the window-seat.



"I shall remain in this room until they return in time," he affirmed

when our task was completed. "When they discover that the scent leads

through curves they will return. They will return ravenous and snarling

and unsatisfied to the foulness that was in the beginning, before time,

beyond space."



He nodded graciously and lit a cigarette. "It was good of you to help,"

he said.



"Will you not see a physician, Chalmers?" I pleaded.



"Perhaps--tomorrow," he murmured. "But now I must watch and wait."



"Wait for what?" I urged.



Chalmers smiled wanly. "I know that you think me insane," he said. "You

have a shrewd but prosaic mind, and you can not conceive of an entity

that does not depend for its existence on force and matter. But did

it ever occur to you, my friend, that force and matter are merely the

barriers to perception imposed by time and space? When one knows, as I

do, that time and space are identical and that they are both deceptive

because they are merely imperfect manifestations of a higher reality,

one no longer seeks in the visible world for an explanation of the

mystery and terror of being."



I rose and walked toward the door.



"Forgive me," he cried. "I did not mean to offend you. You have a

superlative intellect, but I--I have a _superhuman_ one. It is only

natural that I should be aware of your limitations."



"Phone if you need me," I said, and descended the stairs two steps at

a time. "I'll send my physician over at once," I muttered, to myself.

"He's a hopeless maniac, and heaven knows what will happen if someone

doesn't take charge of him immediately."





                                   3



_The following is a condensation of two announcements which appeared in

the_ Partridgeville Gazette _for July 3, 1928_:



                 Earthquake Shakes Financial District



    At 2 o'clock this morning an earth tremor of unusual severity

    broke several plate-glass windows in Central Square and completely

    disorganized the electric and street railway systems. The tremor

    was felt in the outlying districts and the steeple of the First

    Baptist Church on Angell Hill (designed by Christopher Wren in

    1717) was entirely demolished. Firemen are now attempting to put

    out a blaze which threatens to destroy the Partridgeville Glue

    Works. An investigation is promised by the mayor and an immediate

    attempt will be made to fix responsibility for this disastrous

    occurrence.



       *       *       *       *       *



                OCCULT WRITER MURDERED BY UNKNOWN GUEST



                   Horrible Crime in Central Square



              Mystery Surrounds Death of Halpin Chalmers



    At 9 a.m. today the body of Halpin Chalmers, author and

    journalist, was found in an empty room above the jewelry store

    of Smithwick and Isaacs, 24 Central Square. The coroner's

    investigation revealed that the room had been rented _furnished_

    to Mr. Chalmers on May 1, and that he had himself disposed of the

    furniture a fortnight ago. Chalmers was the author of several

    recondite books on occult themes, and a member of the Bibliographic

    Guild. He formerly resided in Brooklyn, New York.



    At 7 a.m. Mr. L. E. Hancock, who occupies the apartment opposite

    Chalmers' room in the Smithwick and Isaacs establishment, smelt

    a peculiar odor when he opened his door to take in his cat and

    the morning edition of the _Partridgeville Gazette_. The odor he

    describes as extremely acrid and nauseous, and he affirms that it

    was so strong in the vicinity of Chalmers' room that he was obliged

    to hold his nose when he approached that section of the hall.



    He was about to return to his own apartment when it occurred to him

    that Chalmers might have accidentally forgotten to turn off the gas

    in his kitchenette. Becoming considerably alarmed at the thought,

    he decided to investigate, and when repeated tappings on Chalmers'

    door brought no response he notified the superintendent. The latter

    opened the door by means of a pass key, and the two men quickly

    made their way into Chalmers' room. The room was utterly destitute

    of furniture, and Hancock asserts that when he first glanced at the

    floor his heart went cold within him, and that the superintendent,

    without saying a word, walked to the open window and stared at the

    building opposite for fully five minutes.



    Chalmers lay stretched upon his back in the center of the room.

    He was starkly nude, and his chest and arms were covered with a

    peculiar bluish pus or ichor. His head lay grotesquely upon his

    chest. It had been completely severed from his body, and the

    features were twisted and torn and horribly mangled. Nowhere was

    there a trace of blood.



    [Illustration: "He was starkly nude, and twisted and torn."]



    The room presented a most astonishing appearance. The intersections

    of the walls, ceiling and floor had been thickly smeared with

    plaster of Paris, but at intervals fragments had cracked and

    fallen off, and someone had grouped these upon the floor about the

    murdered man so as to form a perfect triangle.



    Beside the body were several sheets of charred yellow paper. These

    bore fantastic geometric designs and symbols and several hastily

    scrawled sentences. The sentences were almost illegible and so

    absurd in context that they furnished no possible clue to the

    perpetrator of the crime. "I am waiting and watching," Chalmers

    wrote. "I sit by the window and watch walls and ceiling. I do not

    believe they can reach me, but I must beware of the Doels. Perhaps

    _they_ can help them break through. The satyrs will help, and they

    can advance through the scarlet circles. The Greeks knew a way of

    preventing that. It is a great pity that we have forgotten so much."



    On another sheet of paper, the most badly charred of the seven

    or eight fragments found by Detective Sergeant Douglas (of the

    Partridgeville Reserve), was scrawled the following:



    "Good God, the plaster is falling! A terrific shock has loosened

    the plaster and it is falling. An earthquake perhaps! I never could

    have anticipated this. It is growing dark in the room. I must phone

    Frank. But can he get here in time? I will try. I will recite the

    Einstein formula. I will--God, they are breaking through! They are

    breaking through! Smoke is pouring from the corners of the wall.

    Their _tongues_--ahhhhh----"



    In the opinion of Detective Sergeant Douglas, Chalmers was poisoned

    by some obscure chemical. He has sent specimens of the strange

    blue slime found on Chalmers' body to the Partridgeville Chemical

    Laboratories; and he expects the report will shed new light on

    one of the most mysterious crimes of recent years. That Chalmers

    entertained a guest on the evening preceding the earthquake

    is certain, for his neighbor distinctly heard a low murmur of

    conversation in the former's room as he passed it on his way to the

    stairs. Suspicion points strongly to this unknown visitor and the

    police are diligently endeavoring to discover his identity.





                                   4



_Report of James Morton, chemist and bacteriologist_:



    My dear Mr. Douglas:



    The fluid sent to me for analysis is the most peculiar that I

    have ever examined. It resembles living protoplasm, but it lacks

    the peculiar substances known as enzymes. Enzymes catalyze the

    chemical reactions occurring in living cells, and when the cell

    dies they cause it to disintegrate by hydrolyzation. Without

    enzymes protoplasm should possess enduring vitality, i.e.,

    immortality. Enzymes are the negative components, so to speak, of

    unicellular organism, which is the basis of all life. That living

    matter can exist without enzymes biologists emphatically deny.

    And yet the substance that you have sent me is alive and it lacks

    these "indispensable" bodies. Good God, sir, do you realize what

    astounding new vistas this opens up?





                                   5



_Excerpt from_ The Secret Watchers _by the late Halpin Chalmers_:



    What if, parallel to the life we know, there is another life that

    does not die, which lacks the elements that destroy _our_ life?

    Perhaps in another dimension there is a _different_ force from

    that which generates our life. Perhaps this force emits energy,

    or something similar to energy, which passes from the unknown

    dimension where _it_ is and creates a new form of cell life in

    our dimension. No one knows that such new cell life does exist in

    our dimension. Ah, but I have seen _its_ manifestations. I have

    _talked_ with them. In my room at night I have talked with the

    Doels. And in dreams I have seen their maker. I have stood on the

    dim shore beyond time and matter and seen _it_. _It_ moves through

    strange curves and outrageous angles. Some day I shall travel in

    time and meet _it_ face to face.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HOUNDS OF TINDALOS ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.