nervous little man with pointed fox-like ears, and people who knew him

were prone to brand him a coward. His name, Wellington Van Wyck, did

not raise him in the estimation of his friends.



Bill studied regretfully the thing that Van Wyck had become. It was not

the lack of water that gave him discomfort. His sorrow lay in the fact

that Van Wyck did not possess a capacity for blind enthusiasm.



"It's only six miles," he urged.



"There are cannibals on that island," replied Van Wyck. "It's down on

the chart."



Van Wyck was a little wild and he imagined that cannibals tore

themselves to pieces over their ceremonies. Bill knew that cannibals

were decent and clean and orderly; but there was no explaining that to

Van Wyck. He dealt with him in another fashion.



"You're as weak and flabby and spineless as a jelly-fish with

rheumatism," said Bill. "You're so unsavory that the cannibals

wouldn't eat you. Why don't you kill yourself now, and be done with it?

'Twould be a good way to economize on food!"



Van Wyck scowled and sat down upon the beach. His eyes narrowed. "We

are safer here," he said. His lips were swollen and cracked and he

spoke in a thin, small voice. He assured Bill that he could survive

without luxuries. He said that two men could go three days on one pint

of water, and that in three or four days anything might happen.



Nothing did happen. The three days went by like great white birds at

sea, and the merciless glare of the sun made life a perfect misery.

Bill looked grim. He squatted on the sands and watched the pale blue

water foaming and bubbling in the lagoon, and his eyes glittered. Once

he turned to Van Wyck and laughed. "It has green eyes," he said. "I saw

it watching us on the beach. It plays with the moon and its tentacles

are long and gelatinous!"



Sea water affects some men like hashish. That morning Bill had crawled

to the lagoon on his hands and knees and swallowed more salt than was

good for him. Van Wyck had warned him that it wasn't done, but Bill was

of the disbelieving sort.



Bill's clothes were in tatters, and he found no satisfaction in

contemplating the leanness of his wrists and ankles. Whenever he held

up his wrists for inspection they shook so violently that he let

himself be guided by sentiment and wept. His ankles were no wider than

broomsticks, and when he tried to walk he could hear them crack. He

didn't want to turn them, so he sat down and talked to Van Wyck. He

made an effort to be agreeable.



"I'll concede that the cannibals may eat us," he said. "There is always

that risk. But I don't see why they should; and it's only a six-mile

swim. If we stay here I can't trust myself."



Van Wyck recoiled and his under lip trembled. Bill laid a merciful

hand upon his emaciated shoulder. "There isn't anything that I want to

keep from you," he said. "I'll tell you the truth. For three days I've

been planning to kill you. I lay awake last night and watched you. I

thought: 'This thirst--this dreadful thirst'--_he_ would put an end to

it!"



Van Wyck shivered, and tears ran down his face and dampened his brittle

red beard. His small blue eyes dilated with horror. Hot shame flushed

red over his throat and ears. "But you wouldn't really eat me?" he

moaned.



"I don't know," replied Bill. "That's why I suggest the swim. It's six

miles and we're atrociously weak; but anything to keep from thinking of

_that_!"



Bill knew that Van Wyck understood and sympathized. Van Wyck had a

knife, which he kept hidden, but in his sleep he frequently took it out

and felt the edge of it. Bill had been very much horrified, and he had

not pretended to misunderstand the expression on Van Wyck's face. There

was something brazen in Van Wyck's affrightment when he discovered that

two could play the same sinister game.



The sun was setting and a few gray wisps of clouds were fleeing like

flakes of snow across the blue sky. A single gull careened and dipped

far out in the tumbling black immensity of ocean. A great silence had

fallen upon the atoll, and the stubborn struggle between the two men

drew to an issue before the first wild rush of stars. Van Wyck felt

unsafe in the presence of Bill Cullen, and he made no effort to conceal

his fear.



"Let's get away from here as quickly as possible," he pleaded. "You

were right. Six or seven miles isn't a long swim. If we strip, we can

make it."



Bill extended his hand. It was like a dead thing, but Van Wyck seized

it and wrung it warmly. His voice quivered. "It isn't a long swim, old

fellow," he repeated.



Bill made a grimace. "It might rain," he said.



"It won't rain," responded Van Wyck.



That settled it. They spent the evening getting ready. They hid their

anguish in a bustle of preparation. Bill scurried about and secured

three clams. The unfortunate bi-valves were devoured with immoderate

ferocity. Even their stiff, rubber-like necks afforded grist for the

mill of Van Wyck's teeth. It grieved Bill to see the shells go to

waste. They sat down and congratulated themselves for the first time

in a week. The clams seemed to make their situation less hopeless, but

they did not on that account decide to remain on the island. Their

thirst was abnormal and monstrous. It was not a thing to be talked

about.



       *       *       *       *       *



They managed to get some sleep; but they awoke with their throats on

fire. The game that they had played was over. But they avoided the

thought of their new plan as much as possible, since they did not want

the possibility of fatal consequences to look them in the face.



A chill in the atmosphere generally preceded the customary heat of the

day; and the coldness now seemed unusually severe. They got together a

few sticks and built a fire. The sun had not yet risen, but the island

was immersed in the ghostly gray light of early dawning. They saw

everything vividly. The boulders on the beach seemed alive. A light

wind furred the steel-gray sea with tiny ripples.



"We mustn't waste time," said Van Wyck. It was obvious that his dread

of Bill had grown in the night. Bill's threat had taken complete

possession of his shriveled, selfish little brain. His teeth chattered

over the fire and he planned a thousand assaults on the man beside him.

His fingers clutched frantically at the knife which he kept hidden;

but he lacked the stomach for malicious manslaughter. He feared that

his cowardice might betray him into a false or dangerous move, and he

endeavored to conquer his hysteria with loud boasts.



"It was all poppycock, our worrying about the cannibals," he announced.

"The thing for us to do is to put on a bold front. They'll make gods of

us!"



In the present condition of his mind these words produced a curious

effect on Bill. He waved his arms wildly, and swore at the sky. "Yes,"

he shouted, "they'll do that. But sometimes they're not satisfied

with a living man. They're head-hunters, you know. They have a way of

removing the skull from a man's head, and drying it up, and worshiping

it. They have a predilection for red hair and beards. When they find

both on one head they go wild."



Bill looked directly at Van Wyck. The latter could scarcely stand. He

was swaying hysterically back and forth and running his fingers through

his bristling red beard. "Perhaps I could shave it off before we

start," he wailed.



"With what?" demanded Bill.



"With the clam shells," cried Van Wyck, dejectedly seeking to grasp

some straw that would save his head.



"I refuse to permit it," said Bill. "It's time we started. It wouldn't

be pleasant to swim in the full glare of the sun."



They stripped and rolled their clothes into neat, round balls. Somehow

it did not seem right to abandon them helter-skelter on the beach. They

had a vague idea that they might return for them. They deposited them

gingerly beneath the one coco palm, and walking solemnly to the water's

edge they scowled into the clouded mirror of sea before them.



       *       *       *       *       *



The water was like ice, and Bill shivered and stood on one foot. "Walk

right in," said Van Wyck. "The cannibals expect us!" His smile was

ghastly and indescribable. The blue veins stood out on his scrawny

neck, and his forehead was covered with globules of perspiration.



Bill was the first to go into deep water. Van Wyck stood with the icy

current swirling about his ankles, and watched him wade out until he

stood waist-deep. Bill turned and looked back reproachfully. "You're

coming, aren't you?" Bill's disdain and distrust of Van Wyck were

forgotten in a momentary need for companionship.



As Van Wyck stood with the cold water numbing his toes he had an

irrational desire to turn back and run wildly up the beach, and to

stay on the island until thirst finished him off. The risk of the

swim seemed suddenly displeasing to him. A mist passed rapidly before

his eyes; he ran his fingers through his hair and gulped. But when he

saw the pitiful, hurt expression on Bill's face he put aside unworthy

thoughts. "I'm coming, Bill," he said.



He walked forward until the water eddied and swirled about his chin.

His face was hideously drawn and his eyes bulged, but a forlorn ray

of sunlight filtered through the clouds and played about his head,

bringing out its latent manliness.



"It's deep, out there," said Bill.



They both lurched forward. The sudden loss of footing accentuated

Bill's weakness, and he went under. He felt that his arms and legs were

incapable of sustaining him, and he wondered if Van Wyck would try to

save him.



He came up and struck out, his mouth full of water. The salt burned his

throat and he swallowed. The water went into his stomach. He shivered.

The sun beat mercilessly down upon his naked body.



He swam boldly, with a brief sense of triumph. He had conquered his

physical weakness. He knew that his strength might not last, but

the thought that he had not depended upon Van Wyck gave him secret

satisfaction.



He could see Van Wyck's red head on the water several yards ahead of

him. The little wretch had evidently made good use of his legs and

arms. "Slow up, Van Wyck!" he shouted.



"I don't dare to!" Van Wyck called back. "If I stop I might sink. And

think how deep it is!"



Bill resented Van Wyck's reminder. "If you don't ease up," he shouted,

"you'll surely go down. This isn't an athletic contest!"



"It is," cried Van Wyck. "It's the greatest ever--even if there are

head-hunters at the goal. I advise you to talk to me. It keeps me from

thinking. If I think I shall go down."



But Bill did not feel like talking. The water was cold and he had no

stomach for repartee. He felt the chill of the depths beneath in his

nude limbs. He swallowed great quantities of sea water. He knew that

he might suffer eventually, but he did not care. He wanted to reach

the island. He had never shared Van Wyck's dread of cannibals, and the

thought of the island, with its crystal-clear springs and refreshing

fruits, was a precious balm to him.



He wondered if Van Wyck would survive him. The latter was swimming with

frightful rapidity, leaving him definitely in the lurch. Bill envied

and pitied his little companion. Van Wyck might survive to view the

island, with its green, welcome frondage--but would he ever reach it?



Bill had an uncomfortable suspicion that he might sink. His initial

courage threatened to give out. A mounting hysteria surged through his

brain. He closed his eyes and tried not to think. There was nothing

before him but a limitless stretch of malachite sea. He was fascinated

and horrified by his isolation. A cold, brilliant sun blinded his eyes

and dried up the sap of life in him. The water seemed to thicken, and

he had great difficulty in moving his arms and legs.



       *       *       *       *       *



Bill never knew how he reached the island. For a starving, emaciated

man to swim seven miles is tremendous, and deserves some reward. Like

most valiant men, Bill was conscious of his own worth. When he sighted

the island he said nothing, but he thought: "This is only just. I have

paid the price, and I deserve this."



He had also caught up with Van Wyck. The awful glare in the despairing

eyes that Van Wyck turned upon him told of a fatigue immeasurable and a

desire for water that had passed the bounds of sanity. Van Wyck's eyes

were living pools of liquid fire. His voice was hoarse and rasping, and

he turned over and over in the water; and twice his head went under.



They were horribly near when they sighted the cannibals. Van Wyck saw

them first. He was puffing and wailing, and he had been swimming on his

back, and when he turned over and sighted them his face took on the

aspect of an open wound. His mouth became an awful gash in a grotesque,

streaked horror of countenance.



"Bill," he called hoarsely. "It's worse than we thought. There are

hundreds of 'em!"



Fixing his frightened and horrified eyes on the shore, Bill trod water,

and became suddenly very angry. The scene before him burned itself on

his brain, and robbed him of his victory. He felt that the fates had

taken an indecent advantage of him. His anger mounted, and flushed his

neck and throat. "Damn their black hides!" he muttered.



A clamor and a stench arose from the rocks. The cannibals seemed to be

recovering from a drinking-bout. They writhed in the sun like wounded

snakes. Bill counted sixty or seventy. Their bodies were hideously

tattooed, and they wore monstrous shell rings through their ears and

noses. The women joined with the men in dancing and spitting venom. The

hubbub was deafening. Ages of savagery and blood had shaped them into

capering devils. They were all the more terrible because they had seen

other white men. Bill did not expect much from them. He confessed a

frank horror at the situation.



"If we only had something to give 'em," he groaned.



Van Wyck had somehow expected Bill to rally and come to his support.

He needed a moral prop and he noted with horror that Bill had lost his

solid, comforting manner. Van Wyck's lips were so dry that he could

scarcely get his tongue to shape words of rebuff.



"I don't like it," he finally blurted out. "They certainly mean

business. You might swim in and test 'em!"



"Don't be an ass!" roared Bill.



"All right, then. But if one of us doesn't swim in, both of us are

goners. And since I've never talked with savages I'm hardly the man.

You have a way with you. You could pacify a Java ape-man! Get 'em

laughing--tell 'em a funny story!"



Bill protested venomously. "Those cannibals aren't children," he

groaned. "You can't spoof 'em. This is serious business, Van Wyck."



Van Wyck refused to be convinced and he would have gone on urging Bill

to commit suicide to save his own precious skin if something had

not made all conversation ridiculous. They both saw it at the same

time. They looked at each other and said nothing. Then Van Wyck began

frantically swimming toward the rocks.



The fin divided the water into two glassy walls. As it passed along it

turned the dark surface to shining quicksilver. Bill had barely grasped

the meaning of it when something touched his ankles and he knew that

the water was infested. He gave a sudden, defiant shriek.



But the sharks did not molest him. They made straight for Van Wyck.

They approached in vicious circles, and Bill saw the whites of their

stomachs through the dark green water. The mouth of the largest opened

and closed; and then there followed a clashing of teeth that sounded

like the clanging to of iron-clad portcullises.



Once the horrible gray back of the fish showed above the surface, and

glittered lethally in the sun, and Bill knew that Van Wyck was done

for. Van Wyck was almost near enough to the rocks to climb them, and he

might reasonably have pushed the shark off with his foot, but Bill knew

that he wouldn't. Bill knew that Van Wyck was as good as eaten, and he

thought: "That shark will hardly be content with Van Wyck alone!"



A dozen fins intersected on the surface and occasionally one of the

ravenous monsters would jump clear of the water in its eagerness to

taste satisfying human flesh.



The sight got in under Bill's skin and hurt. He closed his eyes, and

endeavored to think of the grinning, leering savages on the rocks. The

sharks made frantic dashes at Van Wyck and came away with something in

their mouths. They would rush forward, their great jaws would snap--and

there would be less and less of Van Wyck.



Bill was unable to keep his eyes shut. He tried to cover them with

his hands, but then he would go under and get an extra mouthful of

salt water. He came up gasping, and saw that the sea was streaked with

crimson.



As the sharks darted away from Van Wyck they left dark red trails

behind them. Bill heard Van Wyck's screams distinctly, although the

latter had reached a point where screams seemed futile. They became

less and less coherent. Perhaps Van Wyck realized the absurdity of

protest. Perhaps he realized that all things eventually work together

for the best. Certainly the cannibals would have treated him worse. It

is not pleasant to be boiled in oil or hacked to pieces with little

knives.



Bill saw the last of Van Wyck disappear in the maw of an enormous

shark. The water turned a deeper red, and for a moment the sky and sea

and even the naked, gesticulating savages seemed bathed in a crimson

aura. It may have been an optical illusion, since Bill's eyes had

ceased to function with clarity. Bill knew that the sharks would look

about a bit after finishing Van Wyck, and the thought gave him no

satisfaction. "You're next on the list," he told himself.



But somehow the sharks seemed satisfied with poor Van Wyck. Perhaps

they found Van Wyck so unsavory that they did not care to risk tackling

another of the same breed. They circled about for a few minutes after

the last of Van Wyck had disappeared, and then they passed solemnly

eastward, their fins glistening in the brilliant sunlight.



Meanwhile Bill trod water and shuddered when he thought of Van Wyck.

But he didn't let himself think of Van Wyck much after that. Van Wyck,

he argued, was no longer in need of sympathy. "It is the living who

have to suffer," he thought. It was patent that he could enjoy no

security in waters infested with man-eating sharks.



He shouted with delight when he discovered that the cannibals had

disappeared from the rocks. He was forcefully tempted to swim in and

take advantage of his amazing good fortune. But he thought better of

that when he calmly considered the nature of cannibals. They were

probably waiting behind the rocks for him to swim in, and he didn't

care to be boiled in oil when there were sharks to make a quicker,

cleaner job of it.



He decided to attempt to round the island. His ability to keep afloat

amazed and frightened him. He had evidently drawn upon some reserve

strength that nature had hitherto wilfully concealed. Destiny had

played him a new hand. He secretly congratulated himself, although he

continued to curse fate for the cannibals.



       *       *       *       *       *



He got around the island somehow. The current set to at the northern

end and he had some difficulty in surmounting the backwash of black

tidal water; but he finally reached a beach so clean and white and

refreshing that he shouted with boyish eagerness and gratification. He

swam in without reckoning consequences, for in his exultation he had

forgotten or overlooked the cannibals.



He would build a fire and warm himself, and he would eat nothing but

fruit. It needed but a momentary inspection to convince him that the

island contained an excess of fruit. And there was water! A tiny

streamlet came out from the woods, between the boles of fabulously

ancient trees, and ran down the smooth white beach.



Bill swam in and clambered up the beach. He sat down under a hotoo

tree, an absurd horror of bones and wet, clinging sand. He was a living

scarecrow come out of the sea with the wisdom and weariness of ancient

ocean upon him. He could scarcely open and close his thick, black

lips. His sun-baked skin was drawn painfully taut over his protruding

ribs.



A steady surf was crashing on the beach, and he paused while he

listened to the roar of the breakers. He reposed for a time; then he

got up, and a peal of wild laughter came from between his swollen lips.

He had won out! He had hoodwinked the cannibals and sharks! In that

blazing crystal world of sunlight and water he came to life again.



The sun dried him. He gulped up gallons of water from the tiny

streamlet. It was fresh and clear. He was genuinely elated. The wind

swept in from the sea in great, steady gusts, and the flaffing breeze

whistled through his hair and under his armpits. He shouted and danced

in sheer joy. The cannibals, he assured himself, were on the other side

of the island. It was a large island, and he could hide. The chances

against him, he thought, were negligible.



He decided to look about for a hiding-place. He knew that in the vast

forest of tangled vegetation he would have no difficulty in achieving

utter concealment. He could hoard up fruits and coconuts and live

unmolested for days.



But when he turned he saw something peering from between the boles of

the distorted, antique trees that made him change his mind. He stood

still in the center of the beach, and stared, and presently he saw

black, hideous figures come forward into the clearing. Others appeared

crawling toward him on their hands and knees. He realized then the

absurdity of attempting any sort of concealment.



He stood stark still while the cannibals advanced toward him across the

smooth, white sands. He began to envy Van Wyck. He knew too much about

savages. He had that and his imagination to blame for the little hell

that he endured. How could he guess that they did not want revenge? A

savage considers everything an insult. He knew that he should not have

landed upon their infernal island. He wanted to apologize to them, and

to make them understand. He had no desire to lord it over them, and he

admitted to himself that he had deliberately injured their sense of

dignity.



At first he thought that they intended to make short work of him. They

looked sinister. There were three dozen of them in the guard of honor

that advanced toward him across the beach and he did not like their

faces. Their faces were black and swollen and ugly and incredibly

tattooed, and their cheeks were smeared with green and blue paint. One

of them paraded a discarded panama hat. Bill could not imagine where

he had obtained the hat. The wretch had probably repaid the owner by

boiling him in oil. It was quite the thing twenty years ago to burn

traders and missionaries in oil, although the custom has been outgrown

among respectable savages. But the hat looked at least twenty years

old. And one of the devils smoked a corncob pipe! They were tall,

solemn-looking cusses, and Bill did not pretend to like them.



But when they got close to him they formed a circle, shutting him off

from the sea, and he felt then that everything was worse than he had

anticipated. When cannibals begin forming into rings it is customary

to give up hope. They were grinning hideously and Bill could count the

number of teeth in the rings which they wore about their necks.



Some of the leanest and tallest wore thirty or forty teeth. And Bill

knew that a savage never wears more than one tooth from a single head.

It is not considered decent. And each tooth means--but Bill never wept

over spilt milk. He felt that his own head was in imminent danger, and

the knowledge annoyed and frightened him. But he did not dare let

on that he feared them, and he stood up very stiff and straight, and

scowled into their narrow, blood-shot eyes.



They seemed to resent his hostility. It seemed to hurt them, and Bill

was amazed at the hint of reproach in their glances. A cannibal is

something of a gentleman, and he would not deliberately hurt a man's

feelings for the world. And Bill's resentment somehow seemed an insult

to their hospitality. Bill understood how they felt, and he realized

that he had behaved like a boor. But his teeth were knocking together

like billiard balls, and a stern front was necessary.



But he could not look his captors in the face. They came close to

him, and then one of them stepped forward and patted him on the back.

He spoke and Bill understood him. Bill knew nearly all of the Bantu

languages, and the savage spoke a corruption of several.



"We thank our brother for the very fine gift," he said. "We are indeed

grateful!"



Although Bill could understand what the black devil said a reply was

utterly beyond him. The grammatical construction of Bantu overwhelmed

him. Bill kept his mouth shut and stared, pretending not to understand.



The spokesman turned and beckoned. A tall, lean youth with protruding

yellow teeth came quickly forward. Save for a slight hint of pity

in his small eyes his face bore no expression. He held in his right

hand a large, round object which Bill did not immediately recognize.

The spokesman nodded and took the object by its hair. He stroked it

effusively, calling upon it to protect and succor him in war and in

peace. He begged that the object's pity and benevolence would extend

to the whole tribe. He praised the object in terms that would have

embarrassed any living man. Then he turned to Bill and made a very low

bow. "It came ashore before you," he said. "And we are most grateful!"



Bill opened his eyes wide with horror. He sought to express his agony

in words, but no sound came from between his black, swollen lips. A

sudden shriek would perhaps have saved him, and Bill tried hard to make

a sound in his throat. But his horror lay too heavily upon him. He made

a wild, horrid gesture with his right arm and collapsed in a heap upon

the sand.



Three months later Bill was taken off by a trading-sloop. He blabbered

idiotically about the right of a head to decent burial and made

uncomplimentary allusions to the wearing of teeth. He evidently sought

to stir up anger against the cannibals, but the traders ignored his

insinuations, since he was obviously mad and since the cannibals had

worshiped him and given him the run of the island. The memory of Van

Wyck's encrimsoned head had addled his wits.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RED FETISH ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.