

  FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY



  MCMXXVII









_First published in book form, 1927, by_



FREDERICK A. STOKES COMPANY





_Printed in the United States of America_









ILLUSTRATIONS





  All the children began to dance gayly around the tree (_in

  colors_)                                                _Frontispiece_



                                                                  FACING

                                                                    PAGE



  The young giant was talking to a little fairy perched on his

  forefinger                                                          18



  The young giant Feldar compels the warden to open the sick

  giant’s castle-gate                                                 30



  Feldar interviews the sick giant                                    36



  The young giant’s way of getting the key                            44



  Quite a procession was approaching the gate                         58



  The Count and his happy guests enjoy the Christmas feast            70



  Count Cormo adopts the young giant                                  76









_The Poor Count’s Christmas_









THE POOR COUNT’S CHRISTMAS





Very many years ago there lived a noble Count, who was one of the

kindest and best-hearted men in the world. Every day in the year he

gave to the poor and helped the friendless, but it was at the merry

Christmas-time that his goodness shone brightest. He had even vowed a

vow that, as far as he was able to make them so, every child he knew

should be happy Christmas-day.



Early every Christmas morning each boy and girl in the neighborhood who

was old enough, and not too old, came to the castle of the Count Cormo,

and there the Count and Countess welcomed them all, rich or poor, and

through the whole day there were games, and festive merry-making, and

good things to eat, and fun of every kind, and besides all this, there

was a grand Christmas-tree, with a present on it for each of the eager,

happy youngsters who stood around it.



But although the good Count had a castle and rich lands, he gave away

so much money that he became poorer and poorer, so that at last he

and his wife often found it hard to get the clothes and food they

absolutely needed.



But this made no difference with the Christmas festivities. The Count

was not now able to be very generous during the year, although he was

always willing to divide a meal with a hungry person; but he managed

so that the children could have their festival and their presents

at Christmas. Year by year he had sold for this purpose some of the

beautiful things which the castle contained, so that now there was

scarcely enough furniture left for the actual use of himself and the

Countess.



One night, about a week before Christmas, the Count and his wife sat in

the great hall before a fire smaller and poorer than those which burned

on the hearth of most of the cottagers in the surrounding country, for

the cottagers could go into the woods and pick up sticks and twigs,

whereas the Count had sold all his forests, so that he could not cut

wood; and he had only one old man for outdoor work, and he had already

picked up all the fallen branches within a wide circuit of the castle.



“Well, one thing is certain,” said the Countess Cormo, as she drew her

chair nearer to the little pile of burning sticks, “and that is that we

can not have the children here at Christmas this year.”



“Why not?” asked the Count.



“Because we have nothing to give them,” replied his wife. “We have

nothing for them to eat, nothing to put on the tree, and no money to

buy anything. What would be the good of their coming when we have

nothing at all for them?”



“But we must have something,” said the Count. “Think of all the years

that we have had these Christmas gatherings, and then think how hard it

would be, both for us and the little ones, to give them up now we are

growing old; and we may not be with the children another year. There

are yet several days before Christmas; I can sell something to-morrow,

and we can have the tree and everything prepared in time. There will

not be so much to eat as usual, and the presents will be smaller, but

it will be our good old Christmas in spite of that.”



“I should like very much to know what you are going to sell,” asked

the Countess. “I thought we had already parted with everything that we

could possibly spare.”



“Not quite,” said the Count. “There is our old family bedstead. It is

very large; it is made of the most valuable woods, and it is inlaid

with gold and silver. It will surely bring a good price.”



“Sell the family bedstead!” cried the Countess. “The bedstead on which

your ancestors, for generations, have slept and died! How could you

even think of such a thing! And what are we going to sleep on, I’d like

to know?”



“Oh, we can get along very well,” said the Count. “There is a

small bedstead which you can have, and I will sleep on the floor.

I would much rather do that than have the children disappointed at

Christmas-time.”



“On the floor! at your age!” exclaimed the Countess. “It will be the

death of you! But if you have made up your mind, I suppose there is no

use in my saying anything more about it.”



“Not the least in the world,” replied her husband, with a smile; and so

she said no more.









It was on the morning of the next day that there came through the

forest, not very far from the Count Cormo’s castle, a tall young

giant. As he strode along, he appeared to be talking to the forefinger

of his right hand, which he held up before him. He was not, however,

talking to his forefinger, but to a little fairy who was sitting on it,

chatting away in a very lively manner.



“And so,” said this little creature, “you are two hundred miles from

your own home! What in the world made you take so long a journey?”



“I don’t call it very long,” replied the giant; “and I had to take it.

There was nothing else to do. You see I have nothing to eat, or almost

nothing, in my castle, and a person can’t get along that way. He must

go and see about things.”



“And what are you going to see about?” asked the fairy.



“I am going to see if my grandfather’s uncle is dead. He is very rich

and I am one of his heirs. When I get my share of his money, I shall be

quite comfortable.”



[Illustration: THE YOUNG GIANT WAS TALKING TO A LITTLE FAIRY PERCHED ON

HIS FOREFINGER]



“It seems to me,” said the fairy, “that it is a very poor way of

living, to be waiting for other people’s money.”



“It is so,” replied the giant. “I’m tired of it. I’ve been waiting ever

since I was a little boy.”



The fairy saw that her companion had not exactly understood her remark,

but she said no more about it. She merely added, “It seems strange to

hear you say that you once were little.”



“Oh, yes, I was,” said the giant. “At one time I was no taller than a

horse.”



“Astonishing!” said the fairy, making believe to be very much

surprized. “Now, when I was a baby, I was about the size of a pea.”



This made the giant laugh, but he said he supposed it must have been

so, considering the present size, and then he said: “Talking of peas

reminds me that I am hungry. We must stop somewhere, and ask for

something to eat.”



“That will suit me very well, but don’t let us go to the same place,”

said the fairy. “I expect you are dreadfully hungry.”



“All right,” replied the other. “There is a great house over in the

valley, not more than fifteen miles away. I’ll just step over there,

and you can go to Count Cormo’s castle. I’ll take you to the edge of

the woods. When you’ve had your dinner, come back to this oak, and I’ll

meet you; I’ve heard the Count is getting very poor, but he’ll have

enough for you.”



So the giant put the fairy down on the ground, and she skipped along to

the castle, while he stepped over to the house in the valley.



In an hour or two they met again at the great oak, and, the giant

taking up his little friend on his forefinger, they continued their

journey.



“You told me that Count Cormo was poor,” she said, “but I don’t believe

you know how poor he really is. When I went there, he and his wife had

just finished their dinner, and were sitting before the fire-place. I

didn’t notice any fire in it. They were busy talking, and so I did not

disturb them, but just climbed up on the table to see what I could find

to eat. You haven’t any idea what a miserable meal they must have had.

Of course there was enough left for me, for I need only a few crumbs,

but everything was so hard and stale that I could scarcely eat it. I

don’t see how they can live in that way. But after the meal, when I

heard them talking, I found out how poor they really were.”



“It wasn’t exactly the proper thing to sit there and listen to them,

was it?” asked the giant.



“Perhaps not,” said the fairy, “but I did want to hear what they

were saying. So I sat quite still. They were talking about the

Christmas-tree, and all the other good things they give the children

every year; and although they are so poor, they are going to do just

the same this year.”



“I don’t see how they can,” said the giant.



“The Count is going to sell his family bedstead,” replied his companion.



The young giant stopped short in the path.



“You don’t mean to say,” he exclaimed, “that the celebrated family

bedstead of the Cormo family is to be sold to give the children a

Christmas-tree!”



“That is exactly what I mean,” replied the fairy.



“Well, well, well!” said the giant, resuming his walk. “I never heard

of such a thing in all my born days. It’s dreadful; it’s pitiful!”



“Indeed it is,” said the fairy.



“It ought to be stopped,” added the giant. “He shouldn’t be allowed to

do such a thing.”



“Indeed he shouldn’t,” the fairy said.



And thus they went on lamenting and regretting the poor Count’s

purpose, for about eleven miles. Then they came to a cross-road through

the forest.



“I’ll go down here,” said the giant, “and leave you among your friends

at Fairy Elms, where you want to go.”



“I’m not sure that I do want to go there just now,” said the fairy.

“I think I should like to go with you to your grandfather’s uncle’s

castle, and see what your prospects are. If you find he is still alive,

shall you wait?”



“I guess not,” said the giant, laughing. “But you can come along with

me, and we’ll see how things stand.”



       *       *       *       *       *



Before very long, they came to a great castle, and a warder stood

before the gate.



“Ho, warder!” cried the giant when he came up. “How goes it with my

grandfather’s uncle, the old giant Omscrag?”



“He has been dead a month,” said the warder, “and his property is all

divided among his heirs.”



“That is not so,” roared the giant. “I am one of his heirs, and I

haven’t got anything.”



“I don’t know anything about it,” said the warder. “I was told to give

that message to every one who came, and I’ve given it to you.”



“Who told you to give it?” cried the giant.



“My master, Katofan, who is the old giant’s principal heir, and who now

owns the castle.”



“Katofan!” exclaimed the giant. “What impudence! He’s a ninth cousin by

marriage. Where is he? I want to see him.”



“I don’t think he is well enough to see anybody to-day,” said the

warder.



[Illustration: THE YOUNG GIANT FELDAR COMPELS THE WARDEN TO OPEN THE

SICK GIANT’S CASTLE-GATE]



“Open that gate!” the giant roared, “or I shall plunge your family into

woe!”



The warder turned pale, and opened the gate as wide as it would go,

while the giant, with the fairy on his finger, walked boldly in.



In a large inner hall, sitting before a great fire, they saw a giant

so tall and thin that he looked as if he had been made of great

fishing-poles. He turned uneasily in his chair when he saw his visitor,

and was going to say something about being too unwell to receive

company, when our young giant, whose name was Feldar, interrupted him

by calling out, in a tremendous voice:



“Well, now, Katofan, I should like to know what all this means! How did

you come to be heir to this castle?”



“Because it descended to me from my good old relative and friend,” said

the other.



“I expect there are a hundred heirs, who have a better right to it than

you,” said our giant. “The truth is, no doubt, that you were here when

my grandfather’s uncle died, and that you took possession, and have

since kept everybody out.”



“Oh, no,” said the thin giant, “the other heirs have had a share of the

fortune.”



“How many of them?” said Feldar, “and how much did they get?”



“As many as two or three of them,” said the other, “and they got some

very nice things in the way of ornaments and curiosities.”



“Well,” said Feldar, stretching himself up high, “I am one of the

heirs to this property, and I want my share of it. Who attends to the

dividing business? Do you do it yourself?”



“Oh, no!” said the thin giant. “I am not well enough for that. I

cannot go about much. But I will send for my dividing-agent. I had to

employ one, there was so much to do. He will see that you get your

share.”



He then rang a bell, and a small man appeared. When the fairy saw him,

she could not help laughing, but her laugh was such a little one that

no one noticed it. He had a bushy head of hair, which was as black as

ink on one side and as white as milk on the other. Looking at him from

one side, he seemed quite young, and from the other side, quite old.



[Illustration: FELDAR INTERVIEWS THE SICK GIANT]



“Flipkrak,” said the thin giant, “this is another heir to this

property; we overlooked him when we made our division. I wish you would

take him, as you did the others, and let him choose something that he

would like to have.”



“Certainly,” said Flipkrak. “This way, good sir,” and he went out of a

side-door, followed closely by Feldar.



“How would you like a hinge?” cried the thin giant, as they reached

the door. “There are some very handsome and odd hinges, nearly new. If

you take one, you might some day get another to match it, and then you

would have a nice pair all ready when you put up a new door.”



Feldar stopped a moment in the doorway.



“I’ll look at them,” he answered, and then went on.



“Here, good sir,” said Flipkrak, showing the young giant into a large

room, “is a collection of most beautiful articles. You can choose any

one of them, or even two if you like. They will be admirable mementos

of your deceased relative.”



Feldar looked around. There were all sorts of brass and iron ornaments,

old pieces of furniture and various odds and ends, of little value.



“A nice lot of rubbish,” said the young giant. “If I ever have any

holes to fill up, on my ground, I may send for a few wagon-loads of it.

Suppose we look through the rest of the castle?”



“Oh, good sir,” said the dividing-agent, “the things in the rest of the

castle belong to my good master!”



“You can come if you choose,” said Feldar, striding away, “or you can

stay behind,” and the poor man, frightened, ran after him as fast as he

could.



The young giant walked through several of the vast rooms of the castle.

“I see you have a great deal of very fine furniture here,” he said to

Flipkrak, “and I need furniture. I will mark some of it with this piece

of chalk, and you can send it to me.”



“Oh, yes, good sir,” cried the dividing-agent, quite pleased at this.

“We can send it to you after you go away.”



Feldar took a piece of chalk from his pocket, and marked enough

furniture to furnish an ordinary castle.



“This kind of chalk will not rub off,” he said, “and I’ve marked the

things where it won’t show. But don’t overlook any of them. Now, where

are your money-vaults?”



“Oh, good sir!” cried the dividing-agent, “you can’t go there, we don’t

divide any of–I mean we haven’t any money-vaults!”



“Give me the key,” said Feldar.



“Oh, good sir!” cried Flipkrak, shaking with terror, “I must not let

that go out of my keeping–I mean I haven’t got it.”



The giant made no answer, but taking the dividing-agent by the heels,

he held him upside down in the air, and shook him. A big key dropped

from his pockets.



“That’s the key, no doubt,” said the giant, putting the man down, and

picking up the key. “I can find the vault by myself. I won’t trouble

you any more.”



But as he went down to the lower parts of the castle, the

dividing-agent ran after him, wailing and tearing his two-colored hair.



[Illustration: THE YOUNG GIANT’S WAY OF GETTING THE KEY]



When he reached the money-vault, Feldar easily opened the door and

walked in. Great bags of gold and silver, each holding about a bushel,

were piled up around the walls. Feldar took out his piece of chalk,

and marked about a dozen of those bags which held the gold coin.



“Oh, that’s right, good sir,” cried Flipkrak, feeling a little better.

“We can send them to you after you go away.”



“What is in those small bags, on that shelf?” asked Feldar.



“Those are diamonds, good sir,” said the agent; “you can mark some of

them if you like.”



“I will mark one,” said the giant to the fairy, who was securely

nestled in the ruffles of his shirtbosom, “and that I will give to

you.”



“To me!” exclaimed Flipkrak, who did not see the fairy; “what does he

mean by that?”



“Thank you,” said the little creature, in delight. “Diamonds are so

lovely! How glad I am that your grandfather’s uncle died!”



“You shouldn’t say that,” said the giant. “It isn’t proper.”



“But you feel glad, don’t you?” she asked.



“I don’t talk about it, if I do,” said Feldar. Then turning to the

dividing-agent, he told him that he thought he had marked all the bags

he wanted.



“All right, good sir,” said Flipkrak, “we will send them to you, very

soon–very soon.”



“Oh, you needn’t trouble yourself about that,” said Feldar; “I will

take them along with me.” And so saying, he put the bag of diamonds in

one of his coat-pockets, and began to pile the bags of money on his

shoulders.



The dividing-agent yelled and howled with dismay, but it was of no

use. Feldar loaded himself with his bags, and walked off, without even

looking at Flipkrak, who was almost crazy at seeing so much of his

master’s treasure boldly taken away from him.



Feldar stopped for a moment in the great hall, where the thin giant was

still sitting before the fire.



“I’ve taken my share of the money,” he said, “and I’ve marked a lot of

furniture and things which I want you to send me, inside of a week. Do

you understand?”



The thin giant gave one look at the piles of bags on Feldar’s

shoulders, and fainted away. He had more money left than he could

possibly use, but he could not bear to lose the least bit of the wealth

he had seized upon.



“What in the world are you going to do with all that money?” the fairy

asked.



“I am going to give one bag of it to Count Cormo, so that he can offer

the children a decent Christmas-tree, and the rest I shall carry to my

castle on Shattered Crag.”



“I don’t believe the Count will take it,” said the fairy. “He’s awfully

proud, and he would say that you were giving the Christmas feasts and

not he. I wish you would let me manage this affair for you.”



“Well, I will,” said the giant.



“All right,” cried the fairy, clapping her hands. “I’ll do the

thinking and you can do the working. It’s easy for me to think.”



“And it’s just as easy for me to work,” said Feldar, with hearty

good-will.









The day before Christmas, poor Count Cormo sat, quite disconsolate,

in his castle-hall, before a hearth where there was no fire. He had

sold his family bedstead, but he had received very little money for

it. People said such old bedsteads were not worth much, even if they

were inlaid with precious metals. So he had been able only to prepare a

small tree, on which he had hung the cheapest kind of presents, and his

feast was very plain and simple. The Countess, indeed, was afraid the

things would not go around, for their old servant had told them that he

had heard there would be more children at the castle the next day than

had ever been there before. She was in favor of giving up the whole

affair and of sending the children home as soon as they should come.



“What is the use,” she said, “of having them here, when we have so

little to give them? They will get more at home; and then if they don’t

come we shall have the things for ourselves.”



“No, no, my dear,” said the Count; “this may be the last time that we

shall have the children with us, for I do not see how we can live much

longer in this sorrowful condition, but the dear girls and boys must

come to-morrow. I should not wish to die knowing that we had missed a

Christmas. We must do the best with what we have, and I am sure we can

make them happy if we try. And now let us go to bed, so as to be up

early to-morrow.”



The Countess sighed. There was only one little bedstead, and the poor

Count had to sleep on the floor.



Christmas-day dawned bright, clear, and sparkling. The Count was in

good spirits.



“It is a fine day,” he said to his wife, “and that is a great thing for

us.”



“We need all we can get,” said the Countess, “and it is well for us

that fine days do not cost anything.”



Very soon the Count heard the sound of many merry voices, and his eyes

began to sparkle.



“They are coming!” he cried, and threw open the door of the castle, and

went to meet his little guests; but when he saw them he started back.



“What do you think?” he exclaimed to the Countess, who stood behind

him. “There is a long procession of them, and they are headed by a

giant–the young giant Feldar! Who ever heard of such a thing as a giant

coming to a children’s festival! He will eat up everything we have in a

few mouthfuls!”



“You might as well let him do it!” said the Countess. “There won’t be

enough for the others, anyway. There seem to be hundreds of them; and

if there isn’t a band of music striking up!”



Sure enough, quite a procession was approaching the castle. First came

the giant Feldar, with Tillette, the little fairy, on his finger; then

four or five musicians; and after them a long line of children, all

dressed in their best clothes, and marching two by two.



“Merry Christmas!” shouted the giant, as soon as he saw Count Cormo,

and then all the children shouted “Merry Christmas!” until the castle

courtyard echoed with the cheerful greeting, while the band played

loudly and merrily.



[Illustration: QUITE A PROCESSION WAS APPROACHING THE CASTLE]



“Come in, my dears,” cried the Count to the children. “I am glad to see

you. But as for you, good giant, I fear my door is not quite large

enough. But perhaps you can stoop and squeeze yourself in.”



“Count Cormo!” cried the fairy, from the giant’s finger. “I have a plan

to propose.”



The good Count looked up in surprize.



“If it isn’t a dear little fairy!” he exclaimed. “Why, certainly, if

you have a plan to propose, I shall be happy to hear it.”



“Well, then,” said Tillette, “suppose we go first into the great hall

in the old wing of the castle. That is so large that it will hold us

all, and we can have a grand dance, if we feel like it, after we get

there.”



“I am afraid that the great hall would be very uncomfortable,” said the

Count. “No one has lived in it, nor even entered it, so far as I know,

for many years; and everything must be covered with dust and cobwebs.”



“But it would be so nice to march around that great hall, with the

music and everything. I don’t believe there’s any dust.”



“Well, then,” said the Count, “as you seem to have set your heart on

it, we’ll go.”



So the Count and the Countess put on their hats and took their places

in the procession, at the head of the line of children and just behind

the musicians. Then they all marched across the great courtyard to the

old wing of the castle, and when they reached the doors of the great

hall, the giant swung them open, and everybody entered.



Never were there two such astonished people as the Count and the

Countess!



Right in the middle of the hall stood a great Christmas-tree, which

the giant had brought in on his shoulders from the woods. On the

wide-spreading branches of this tall tree were hung hundreds of

presents and sparkling ornaments.



“What does this mean?” gasped the Count. “Whose tree is this?”



“It is yours! It is yours!” cried all the children in a merry chorus

which made the old walls ring. “It is your Christmas-tree, and we, the

children, who love you, give it to you!”



The Count looked around from one to another of the children, but did

not say a word. His heart was too full for him to speak. Then the

giant put the fairy on his shirt-frill, and, stooping down, took up

the Count and Countess, one in each hand, holding them gently but very

firmly, and carried them around the tree, raising them up and down, so

that they could see all the presents, even those at the very top.



Everything was labeled–not with the name of the person they were for,

for they were all for the Count and Countess, but with the names of

those who gave them.



Presently, the Count began to read every name aloud, and each time a

child’s name was called, all the other children would clap and cheer.

There were a good many small bags, which looked as if they were

very heavy, hanging here and there, and these were all marked “From

Feldar,” while some beautiful clusters of diamonds, which glittered in

the sunlight that poured in through the windows, were labeled “From

Tillette.”



It took a long time to look at all the presents, which were rather

different from the things generally seen on Christmas-trees, for the

great branches and boughs held every kind of useful and ornamental

articles that the Count and Countess needed. Many of these were old

family treasures which they once had owned, but had been obliged to

sell, to keep up their Christmas festivals.



The Count and his wife were more and more delighted as they were

carried around the tree, but at last this happy business was over, and

the giant put them down upon the floor.



“Now for a dance!” cried the fairy, in her clear little voice, and the

music struck up, while all the children began to dance gayly around the

tree.



The Count and Countess, with the giant and the fairy, stood aside

while this happy play was going on, enjoying it almost as much as the

children, but when the dancing began to flag, the Count thought that

the time had now come when the party ought to have something to eat,

and his heart failed him when he thought of the very meager repast he

had to offer them.



But he need not have troubled his mind about that. As soon as the dance

was done, the giant stepped to a door which led to another apartment,

and throwing it open he cried:



“Enter the banqueting-hall! This is the feast the children give to the

good Count Cormo and his wife. He has feasted them often and often,

and made them happy for many a Christmas. It is their turn now.”



Everybody trooped through the door, the children gently pushing the

Count and Countess before them. The room was truly a banqueting-hall.

A long table was covered with every kind of thing good to eat, and, on

smaller tables in the corners, was ever so much more, in case it should

be needed. Here and there, on the long table were enormous cakes, great

bowls of jelly, and vast pies. Everybody knew these were for the giant.



The Count and Countess took their places at the head and foot of the

table; and all the children gathered around, and everybody had a

splendid appetite. Just in the center of the table there was a little

table about three inches high, on which there were dear little morsels

of the dainties the others were eating. At this table, on a little

chair, the fairy Tillette sat, where she could see everything, and she

enjoyed herself as much as anybody else did.



[Illustration: THE COUNT AND HIS HAPPY GUESTS ENJOY THE CHRISTMAS FEAST]



When the banquet was over, they all went into the great hall, where

they had dances and games and singing, and there never was a merrier

company before.



When evening approached the Count stood up and made a little speech.

He tried to tell the children how good he thought they were, and how

happy they had made him. He did not say much, but they all understood

him. When he had finished there was a silence over the whole room. The

children looked at one another, some of them smiled, and then, all

together, as if they had planned it out before, they cried:



“The giant and the fairy did it all. He gave us the money and she told

us what to buy.”



“Oh, pshaw!” said the young giant, his face turning very red; “I

thought nothing was to be said about that,” and he went outside so that

nobody should make a speech to him.



Now all the children came up, and each in turn bade the Count and

Countess farewell, and then, headed by the giant’s band of music, and

singing merrily, they marched away to their homes.



But Count Cormo would not let the giant and the fairy go away so soon.

He made them come with him to the dwelling part of his castle, and

there, after a little squeezing and stooping by the giant, at the door,

they all sat down around the hearth, on which a fine blazing fire had

been built.



“I don’t know what to say, my dear Feldar,” said the Count, “and I can

never repay you––”



The giant was just about to exclaim that the Count need not say

anything, and that he did not wish to be repaid, when, seeing he felt

embarrassed, the fairy broke in:



“Oh, yes, dear Count, you can repay him. You can adopt him. You have

no children, you are getting old, and are living alone. He has no

parents,–even his grandfather’s uncle is now dead,–and he lives all

by himself in his castle on the Shattered Crag. He is rich, and you

can show him how to do good with his great wealth. He could come and

live in the old wing of the castle, where the rooms are so large; the

furniture he has inherited could be sent here, and you could all be so

happy together! Will you take him?”



The Count’s eyes filled with tears.



“Would you like us to adopt you?” he said to Feldar.



[Illustration: COUNT CORMO ADOPTS THE YOUNG GIANT]



“Indeed I should,” was the reply. Then the young giant kneeled on the

floor; and the Count got up on a table, and put his hands on the young

giant’s head, and adopted him.



“Now you ought to adopt her,” said Feldar, after he had kissed the

Count and the Countess, and had sat down again by the fire.



“No,” said Tillette, “I can not be adopted. But I will often come to

see you, and we shall be happy together, and the children will have a

splendid Christmas festival every year.”



“As long as we live,” said the Count and Countess.



“As long as I live,” said Feldar.



When the Count and Countess went up to their room, that night, there

they found the family bedstead, all cleaned and polished, with its gold

and silver ornaments sparkling like new.



“What a happy Christmas I have had!” said good Count Cormo.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE POOR COUNT'S CHRISTMAS ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.