out. Made it interesting enough to get in the news.



But that doesn’t happen often. Most of the time you sit and doze and

tap, tap on your typewriter and wish you were home in bed.



Sometimes, though, queer things happen. One did the other night and I

haven’t got over it yet. I wish I could.



You see, I handle the night manager’s desk in a western seaport town;

what the name is, doesn’t matter.



There is, or rather was, only one night operator on my staff, a fellow

named John Morgan, about forty years of age, I should say, and a

sober, hard-working sort.



He was one of the best operators I ever knew, what is known as a

“double” man. That means he could handle two instruments at once and

type the stories on different typewriters at the same time. He was one

of the three men I ever knew who could do it consistently, hour after

hour, and never make a mistake.



Generally we used only one wire at night, but sometimes, when it was

late and the news was coming fast, the Chicago and Denver stations

would open a second wire and then Morgan would do his stuff. He was a

wizard, a mechanical automatic wizard which functioned marvelously but

was without imagination.



On the night of the sixteenth he complained of feeling tired. It was

the first and last time I had ever heard him say a word about himself,

and I had known him for three years.



It was at just 3 o’clock and we were running only one wire. I was

nodding over reports at my desk and not paying much attention to him

when he spoke.



“Jim,” he said, “does it feel close in here to you?”



“Why, no, John,” I answered, “but I’ll open a window if you like.”



“Never mind,” he said. “I reckon I’m just a little tired.”



That was all that was said and I went on working. Every ten minutes or

so I would walk over and take a pile of copy that had stacked up

neatly beside his typewriter as the messages were printed out in

triplicate.



It must have been twenty minutes after he spoke that I noticed he had

opened up the other wire and was using both typewriters. I thought it

was a little unusual, as there was nothing very “hot” coming in. On my

next trip I picked up the copy from both machines and took it back to

my desk to sort out the duplicates.



The first wire was running out the usual sort of stuff and I just

looked over it hurriedly. Then I turned to the second pile of copy. I

remember it particularly because the story was from a town I had never

heard of: “Xebico.” Here is the dispatch. I saved a duplicate of it

from our files:



    “Xebico Sept. 16 CP BULLETIN



    “The heaviest mist in the history of the city settled over the

    town at 4 o’clock yesterday afternoon. All traffic has stopped and

    the mist hangs like a pall over everything. Lights of ordinary

    intensity fail to pierce the fog, which is constantly growing

    heavier.



    “Scientists here are unable to agree as to the cause, and the

    local weather bureau states that the like has never occurred

    before in the history of the city.



    “At 7 p. m. last night municipal authorities--(more)”



That was all there was. Nothing out of the ordinary at a bureau

headquarters, but, as I say, I noticed the story because of the name

of the town.



It must have been fifteen minutes later that I went over for another

batch of copy. Morgan was slumped down in his chair and had switched

his green electric light shade so that the gleam missed his eyes and

hit only the top of the two typewriters.



Only the usual stuff was in the right hand pile, but the left hand

batch carried another story from “Xebico.” All press dispatches come

in “takes,” meaning that parts of many different stories are strung

along together, perhaps with but a few paragraphs of each coming

through at a time. This second story was marked “add fog.” Here is the

copy;



    “At 7 p. m. the fog had increased noticeably. All lights were now

    invisible and the town was shrouded in pitch darkness.



    “As a peculiarity of the phenomenon, the fog is accompanied by a

    sickly odor, comparable to nothing yet experienced here.”



Below that in customary press fashion was the hour, 3:27, and the

initials of the operator, JM.



There was only one other story in the pile from the second wire. Here

it is:



    “2nd add Xebico Fog



    “Accounts as to the origin of the mist differ greatly. Among the

    most unusual is that of the sexton of the local church, who groped

    his way to headquarters in a hysterical condition and declared

    that the fog originated in the village churchyard.



    “‘It was first visible in the shape of a soft gray blanket

    clinging to the earth above the graves,’ he stated. ‘Then it began

    to rise, higher and higher. A subterranean breeze seemed to blow

    it in billows, which split up and then joined together again.



    “‘Fog phantoms, writhing in anguish, twisted the mist into queer

    forms and figures. And then--in the very thick midst of the

    mass--something moved.



    “‘I turned and ran from the accursed spot. Behind me I heard

    screams coming from the houses bordering on the graveyard.’



    “Although the sexton’s story is generally discredited, a party has

    left to investigate. Immediately after telling his story, the

    sexton collapsed and is now in a local hospital, unconscious.”



Queer story, wasn’t it? Not that we aren’t used to it, for a lot of

unusual stories come in over the wire. But for some reason or other,

perhaps because it was so quiet that night, the report of the fog made

a great impression on me.



It was almost with dread that I went over to the waiting piles of

copy. Morgan did not move and the only sound in the room was the

tap-tap of the sounders. It was ominous, nerve-racking.



There was another story from Xebico in the pile of copy. I seized on

it anxiously.



    “New Lead Xebico Fog CP



    “The rescue party which went out at 11 p. m. to investigate a

    weird story of the origin of a fog which, since late yesterday,

    has shrouded the city in darkness, has failed to return. Another

    and larger party has been dispatched.



    “Meanwhile the fog has, if possible, grown heavier. It seeps

    through the cracks in the doors and fills the atmosphere with a

    terribly depressing odor of decay. It is oppressive, terrifying,

    bearing with it a subtle impression of things long dead.



    “Residents of the city have left their homes and gathered in the

    local church, where the priests are holding services of prayer.

    The scene is beyond description. Grown folk and children are alike

    terrified and many are almost beside themselves with fear.



    “Mid the wisps of vapor which partially veil the church

    auditorium, an old priest is praying for the welfare of his flock.

    The audience alternately wail and cross themselves.



    “From the outskirts of the city may be heard cries of unknown

    voices. They echo through the fog in queer uncadenced minor keys.

    The sounds resemble nothing so much as wind whistling through a

    gigantic tunnel. But the night is calm and there is no wind. The

    second rescue party--(more)”



I am a calm man and never in a dozen years spent with the wires have

been known to become excited, but despite myself I rose from my chair

and walked to the window.



Could I be mistaken, or far down in the canyons of the city beneath me

did I see a faint trace of fog? Pshaw! It was all imagination.



In the pressroom the click of the sounders seemed to have raised the

tempo of their tune. Morgan alone had not stirred from his chair. His

head sunk between his shoulders, he tapped the dispatches out on the

typewriters with one finger of each hand.



He looked asleep. Maybe he was--but no, endlessly, efficiently, the two

machines rattled off line after line, as relentless and effortless as

death itself. There was something about the monotonous movement of the

typewriter keys that fascinated me. I walked over and stood behind his

chair reading over his shoulder the type as it came into being, word

by word.



Ah, here was another:



    “Flash Xebico CP



    “There will be no more bulletins from this office. The impossible

    has happened. No messages have come into this room for twenty

    minutes. We are cut off from the outside and even the streets

    below us.



    “I will stay with the wire until the end.



    “It is the end, indeed. Since 4 p. m. yesterday the fog has hung

    over the city. Following reports from the sexton of the local

    church, two rescue parties were sent out to investigate conditions

    on the outskirts of the city. Neither party has ever returned nor

    was any word received from them. It is quite certain now that they

    will never return.



    “From my instrument I can gaze down on the city beneath me. From

    the position of this room on the thirteenth floor, nearly the

    entire city can be seen. Now I can see only a thick blanket of

    blackness where customarily are lights and life.



    “I fear greatly that the wailing cries heard constantly from the

    outskirts of the city are the death cries of the inhabitants. They

    are constantly increasing in volume and are approaching the center

    of the city.



    “The fog yet hangs over everything. If possible, it is even

    heavier than before. But the conditions have changed. Instead of

    an opaque, impenetrable wall of odorous vapor, now swirls and

    writhes a shapeless mass in contortions of almost human agony. Now

    and again the mass parts and I catch a brief glimpse of the

    streets below.



    “People are running to and fro, screaming in despair. A vast

    bedlam of sound flies up to my window, and above all is the

    immense whistling of unseen and unfelt winds.



    “The fog has again swept over the city and the whistling is coming

    closer and closer.



    “It is now directly beneath me.



    “God! An instant ago the mist opened and I caught a glimpse of the

    streets below.



    “The fog is not simply vapor--it lives. By the side of each

    moaning and weeping human is a companion figure, an aura of

    strange and varicolored hues. How the shapes cling! Each to a

    living thing!



    “The men and women are down. Flat on their faces. The fog figures

    caress them lovingly. They are kneeling beside them. They are--but

    I dare not tell it.



    “The prone and writhing bodies have been stripped of their

    clothing. They are being consumed--piecemeal.



    “A merciful wall of hot, steamy vapor has swept over the whole

    scene. I can see no more.



    “Beneath me the wall of vapor is changing colors. It seems to be

    lighted by internal fires. No, it isn’t. I have made a mistake.

    The colors are from above, reflections from the sky.



    “Look up! Look up! The whole sky is in flames. Colors as yet

    unseen by man or demon. The flames are moving, they have started

    to intermix, the colors rearrange themselves. They are so

    brilliant that my eyes burn, yet they are a long way off.



    “Now they have begun to swirl, to circle in and out, twisting in

    intricate designs and patterns. The lights are racing each with

    each, a kaleidoscope of unearthly brilliance.



    “I have made a discovery. There is nothing harmful in the lights.

    They radiate force and friendliness, almost cheeriness. But by

    their very strength, they hurt.



    “As I look they are swinging closer and closer, a million miles at

    each jump. Millions of miles with the speed of light. Aye, it is

    light, the quintessence of all light. Beneath it the fog melts

    into a jeweled mist, radiant, rainbow-colored of a thousand varied

    spectrums.



    “I can see the streets. Why, they are filled with people! The

    lights are coming closer. They are all around me. I am enveloped.

    I----”



The message stopped abruptly. The wire to Xebico was dead. Beneath my

eyes in the narrow circle of light from under the green lampshade, the

black printing no longer spun itself, letter by letter, across the

page.



The room seemed filled with a solemn quiet, a silence vaguely

impressive. Powerful.



I looked down at Morgan. His hands had dropped nervelessly at his

sides while his body had hunched over peculiarly. I turned the

lampshade back, throwing the light squarely in his face. His eyes were

staring, fixed. Filled with a sudden foreboding, I stepped beside him

and called Chicago on the wire. After a second the sounder clicked its

answer.



Why? But there was something wrong. Chicago was reporting that Wire

Two had not been used throughout the evening.



“Morgan!” I shouted. “Morgan! Wake up, it isn’t true. Someone has been

hoaxing us. Why----” In my eagerness I grasped him by the shoulder. It

was only then that I understood.



The body was quite cold. Morgan had been dead for hours. Could it be

that his sensitized brain and automatic fingers had continued to

record impressions even after the end?



I shall never know, for I shall never again handle the night shift.

Search in a world atlas discloses no town of Xebico. Whatever it was

that killed John Morgan will forever remain a mystery.



[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the September 1926 issue

of Weird Tales.]







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NIGHT WIRE ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.