I rested on reaching what seemed to be the top of the incline, and

leaned back against the wall of the cave. For a moment the silence was

unbroken. And then in the darkness there was a whisper of movement,

an unseen stirring that was stilled by my involuntary, voiceless cry,

"_What's there!_"



With only a blurred memory of having reached for it, I found my gun in

my hand.



"Don't shoot!" said a burry voice. "Allow me to introduce myself:

Mister J. J. Abrogado, A-b-r-o-g-a-d-o, Serbo-Croat prospector, at your

service!"



I lowered the gun hesitantly, letting it waver in the general direction

from which the voice came. It was a strange introduction, but the

possessor of the voice must have been as frightened by my bursting

suddenly into the cave as I had been on finding it already occupied.



"What are you doing here?" I asked.



"That's supposed to be my question," said Mister J. J. Abrogado. "Who

are you? And what was it that frightened you?"



"Sorry," I apologized. "My name's Ross. I'm an archeologist. I was on

a trip alone in my ground car when it broke down. Being no mechanic, I

couldn't fix it. I decided to walk back to Marsport. I walked all day

and most of this night, when--Well, listen!"



I bent my head to one side. Through the earphones of my headwarmer I

could hear from far away a vague presentiment of movement, a dim blur

upon the horizon of sound.



"The nightrunners," said Abrogado in recognition. "I thought it might

have been something else that frightened you." There was an unspoken

question in his silence.



"What?" I asked, wondering.



The cave was like a bottle of blackness. I could see nothing of my

companion, not even his head and shoulders which must have been thrust

rather sharply forward.



"The Nobles," said the prospector. "I thought perhaps you had seen a

Noble."



The presentiment of movement had become a distant murmur, and my hand

against the cave wall could detect a soft, smooth trembling.



"No, I didn't see a Noble," I answered. "In fact, I've never seen a

Noble."



"Nor I," said J. J. Abrogado.



There was silence again. It lasted for long minutes. There was nothing

in my universe but the solidity of cave wall and floor; and--in the

background--the growing murmur of the nightrunners.



"I've seen a man who saw a Noble, though," I said at last. "What was

left of him they brought into the base hospital at Marsport on a rubber

blanket, and placed in a tub. Nothing was missing, but he was peeled."



I might just as well have said 'shelled' or 'husked', as if something

had tried to turn him inside out.



The murmur was now the sound of a rising tide.



The man I had seen in the tub had been one of the few "missing men" who

had been found. The others had never been seen again. They had been

archeologists, exploring isolated Martian ruins or prospectors, seeking

precious metals....



As if aware of my thoughts, Abrogado said: "Most of the missing were

prospectors. I'm a prospector."



Instantly I regretted having contributed anything about Nobles to the

conversation. I remembered all the stories I had ever heard about

Martian prospectors gone mad. And here was one seemingly obsessed

with the fear of falling into the two-fingered hands of the strange

creatures from outer space.



My eyes were as accustomed now to the blackness as they would ever be,

and still I could see virtually nothing of my companion--except for a

slight lessening of the darkness mirrored in his eyes occasionally. But

that lessening gave me two items of information: He was about my height

and he was looking directly at me.



"The Nobles," said Abrogado in his toneless voice. "Man knows almost

nothing of them, as they can stop their hearts at will, and so are

never captured alive.



"We can only be sure that they are stately, regal creatures, fifteen

feet high who walk always with grace and dignity. Proud, sensitive,

steeped in tradition--that is the impression one gains of them. But

it's hard to understand how such remote, godlike beings whose lives

should be devoted to beauty remain continually preoccupied with death.



"But then, standards vary, and what Earthman can say what is truly

beautiful, what is truly ugly? Perhaps the Nobles evoke strange

and somber rhythms from human diaphragms, play great symphonies of

attenuated delight upon the nerves of living creatures."



Whatever else Abrogado had to say was submerged in a great flood of

sound. Outside, a hundred thousand ostrich-like creatures were racing

madly through the night, their thick legs drumming against the desert

sands. The cave was filled with the echoing thunder of their passing.



If it hadn't been for them I would have flung myself out of the cave

to avoid sharing for another moment the company of the mad prospector.

But nothing could stand before the impact of that terrible explosive

migration, which had mystified zoologists for so many years.



Actually, I was being needlessly alarmed. After all, I was armed.

What did I have to fear from a moonstruck old man? Nevertheless, I

had an uneasy picture of him standing near, waiting for the turmoil

to subside, his face gaunt and shadowed by a heavy beard. For once I

wished I had the Noble's ability to see in the dark.



Minutes passed while the drumming drained slowly away.



"I'm glad that's over," said Abrogado. "I have some questions to ask

you. I have been isolated in the desert for many months. You are the

first human I have seen for a long while."



"Go ahead," I said, absently.



I was wondering just how the missing prospectors had been trapped. I

pictured Nobles crouching in a cave, waiting for one of the poor devils

to enter. But that wasn't likely. Their bodies were formed of large

cartilage-like sections which were too rigid to permit them to crouch

or kneel. Physiologically, they had but two choices: to draw themselves

up to their full height of fifteen feet, or to lie flat upon the

ground.



In reply to Abrogado's questions, I chatted lightly about the new shops

and homes, and the population figures as shown in the latest census of

Marsport.



Abrogado asked: "Have you seen the new interstellar ship?"



"_The Stellar Missile?_" I nodded; "Yes, I've seen it. They're still

putting the finishing touches on it--painting, insulating, and so on."



The existence of the great ship, long under secret construction, had

just been revealed to the populaces of the Inner Worlds. It was being

constructed on Mars as it would be easier to lift from the red planet

than from Earth. The nose of _The Stellar Missile_ was pointed outward

in the general, but specifically unknown, direction of the home planet

of the Nobles.



"What star is it investigating first?" asked Abrogado.



"Oh, a very likely star," I said, "considering the evidence. Sirius."



"So it is Mira?" mused the other. "I know little of astronomy, but it

doesn't seem a likely star to me."



I touched the open face of my watch, feeling the hands. I knew that in

a few minutes it would be--not dawn, but daylight. Because of its light

atmospheric envelope there is no true twilight, or dawn on Mars. The

sun just suddenly waxes into brightness in about the same length of

time as it takes the glow in a television tube to wane into darkness.

And so, in a few minutes, I would see my companion for the first time.



"I have an idea," I said, "as to how we can deal with the Nobles when

we find them."



"Yes?" asked Abrogado.



"Mind if I sit down?" I asked. I loosened my harness, unbuckled my

belt. "Have you heard of J-bombs?" I said, and dropped.



Before I struck the floor my gun-weighted hand had leapt out, and

the silence was shredded by a staccato blast of sound. I jack-knifed

upwards, holding the trigger tight against the butt emptying

destruction into the night with desperate haste.



My gun brought its stuttered sentence to a halt and, as if a period

were being added by the pen of chance, there was the metallic

punctuation of a heavy object dropping to the ground.



Then, miraculously, the interior of the cave brimmed with radiance, and

objects stood out in stark relief. There was a glint of brightness on

metal: A gun of strange design lay directly before me.



And above me the explosion-pocked body of a Noble hung suspended from

the ceiling by suction-cupped feet. It dripped blue blood upon the

rocky floor, its eyes vacantly staring.











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NOBLES ARE COMING ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.