and this worried her, too).



After eleven of the rooms were filled--leaving the remaining room for

herself--the price of the ad in the paper began to worry her, so she

called and had it taken out. Then she settled herself comfortably in

the living room, and, in her new role as landlady, began to worry about

collecting the weekly rent.



The sun had just set, and Mrs. Tibbets had just turned on the lights in

the living room--and begun to worry about the electric bill--when the

door-chimes sounded.



"It could be a telegram with bad news," thought Mrs. Tibbets, worrying

herself toward the door. "Or the police are here to arrest one of the

tenants. Or some desperate criminal has come here to murder us all.

Or--"



At this juncture, she opened the door.



She found herself looking up into the sad-eyed, pale face of a man

who stood at least six-feet-six inches tall, couldn't have weighed

less than two hundred pounds, and was rather startlingly garbed in an

ankle-length opera cloak with a flame-colored silk lining.



"I've come about a room," he said, in an enthralling baritone voice,

with just the smallest hint of a foreign accent bending the syllables.

"My name," he added, with a toothy smile, "is Thobal. Vandor Thobal."



       *       *       *       *       *



Mrs. Tibbets found herself smiling back, despite the queer goosefleshy

feeling she got all over when she saw the length and sharpness of his

canines. There was a numbing sort of heat in his deep-set, burning eyes

that made her feel rather weak and helpless.



"I'm afraid--" she said, and almost left those two words as her

complete statement, "--I'm afraid that I've rented all the rooms. I

just had the ad taken out of the paper today."



"Surely you have something ..." he insisted, coming inside her hall and

closing the door behind him. He made no move to remove his cloak. "All

I require is a place to sleep...."



"I'm so terribly sorry, but I--" Mrs. Tibbets began to worry about

Mister Thobal, all at once. What if she turned him away, and he were

found in the morning, huddled frozen in an alley somewhere. The fact

that it was mid-July didn't stop her mental image of frosty death.

Then she brightened. "Perhaps ... I wouldn't show this to anybody,

ordinarily, because it's really a terrible sort of place, but I _do_

have a very small room. However, I should warn you: It's down in the

cellar."



"Ah!" said Vandor Thobal, his eyes flashing scarlet. "Does it have

mice? Cobwebs? Mold?"



Mrs. Tibbets sighed, and nodded. "Yes, I'm afraid it does."



"Wonderful!" said the pale man. "I'll take it."



"You will?" she said, with considerable surprise.



"Yes. I'm--I'm a sort of nature-lover. We're all brothers, really. The

cat, the bat, the rat, the spider, the maggot...."



"Well," said Mrs. Tibbets, with a sniff, "it'll be like Old Home Week

for you in my cellar, then. It's this way," she said, leading him out

into the kitchen.



       *       *       *       *       *



She had to fumble with a ring of keys before she found the one that

opened the stiff metal padlock on the cellar door. "Haven't been

down here in months," she said with a little laugh, flicking on the

lightswitch, and preceding him down the stairs. He followed wordlessly

past the heaped cartons of odd bits of junk, past the furnace--unused

during the summer months--and to a small room (really hardly more than

a bin) at the rear of the cellar.



Mrs. Tibbets reddened in embarrassment as she opened the crooked door

of plain, unsanded boards. "Used to be used for coal, before I had oil

heat put in," she said, apologetically, hoping he wouldn't mind the

crust of grime that covered the tiny cellar window near the top of the

flaking brick wall. The place had a rather repulsive wet, yeasty smell

to it.



Her new tenant, however, seemed very content. Almost ecstatic. "And

what is this?" he said, indicating a short flight of stairs just

outside the door of his room.



"Oh, that leads to the backyard," said Mrs. Tibbets. "Hasn't been

unlocked in years," she said, indicating the slope of the sturdy cellar

doors at the head of the stone stairway.



"It will do nicely, thank you," said Vandor, rubbing his white hands

briskly together. "Yes, it will be ideal. I shall move my things in

tonight."



"Through there?" she asked. "I'm not even sure what I've done with the

key...."



"Do not worry. I have a way with locks," he smiled.



       *       *       *       *       *



That _smile_, she thought, it makes me all queasy inside.



"Well," she said, trying to brush off the mildewed folding cot in the

corner of the room and raising a cloud of fleas from the damp dust on

the mattress, "all right. It'll be ten dollars a week."



Vandor Thobal made a short, snappy bow, and clicked his heels slightly.

"Of course," he said, reaching inside his cloak, and coming out with a

crisp new bill. "This should take care of it for awhile."



Mrs. Tibbets adjusted her glasses in the dim cellar and looked at the

bill. "Five hundred dollars?" she said, with a little squeak in her

voice. "Why, that's almost a year's rent!"



"Am I to understand there is a limit to my stay?" asked Vandor.



"Why, no," she said, quickly. "It's just that--I mean--Nobody gives a

year's--No, of course not. No limit at all. Stay as long as you like."



A little giddy at her good fortune, she rushed upstairs, and had

automatically almost locked the cellar door when she remembered that

her new tenant was still downstairs. "You don't have anything of value

down there, do you?" she called, leaning over the stairs from the

kitchen door. "I mean, you have no way of locking your room...."



There was no answer.



"Mister Thobal?" she called, a little less heartily.



Still no answer.



Finally, cautiously, she made her way back down to the tiny room at the

back of the cellar. It was empty.



"Mister Tho-bal!" she sing-songed, peering around in the semi-gloom of

the shadowy cellar. She went to the short flight of stone stairs and

looked up at the slanting cellar doors. Hesitantly, she reached up a

hand toward them and gave a tiny shove.



The doors flew outward with a loud slamming noise, and she gasped and

drew back. Vandor was standing there above her, silhouetted against the

night sky, his eyes glowing redly and nostrils flaring as he saw her

there. He was carrying a large, ugly wooden box in his arms.



"Oh!" she said. "Is that your luggage?"



"... Yes. My--er--trunk," he said, starting slowly downstairs, with his

burden, nearly as wide as the stone steps. Mrs. Tibbets stepped aside

to let him pass, and as he did so, entering through the door to his

room, a tiny trickle of dirt sprinkled on the floor from under the edge

of the box's lid.



       *       *       *       *       *



"Goodness gracious!" she said, following him into his room curiously,

"Whatever have you got in there? It seems so odd."



Vandor set the box against the cellar wall and turned to her, his face

white and angry. "Madam, that is my own personal business, if you don't

mind!"



Mrs. Tibbets shrugged. "Well, I just saw a dribble of dirt coming out

of it, and thought perhaps I could sweep it out for you--"



Vandor's face went--if anything--whiter. "_No!_" he roared, in an

almost terrified voice. "I--I mean, that won't be necessary. It's

_supposed_ to be full of earth. I--I'm a sort of--of botanist. I grow

things."



"Hmmph," Mrs. Tibbets sniffed. "You won't be able to grow anything but

mushrooms, down here!"



"That's just what I _do_ grow," he said, with a smile of relief,

bringing his long pointed canines into view. "Horticulture.... Nothing

like it."



"I s'pose not," said his landlady, starting out of his room. "I'll come

down tomorrow and kind of straighten things up a little for you, while

you're at work. The place certainly needs it."



"_No!_" he said, adding hastily, "I work _nights_. I usually sleep

during the day."



"Oh, then I wouldn't want to disturb your sleep," said Mrs. Tibbets,

at the foot of the stairs. "I'll wait until you go to work, and _then_

I'll--"



"Please!" Vandor approached her, his hands spread wide in supplication.

"I like everything _just_ as it is!"



"Well, it's your room ..." she sighed, starting upstairs. "If there's

anything I can do--"



"There _is_ something," said Vandor. "Will you please replace the

padlock on the door in your kitchen? I'll be using the cellar door, if

you don't mind, as a sort of private entrance...."



Mrs. Tibbets hesitated, then thought of the five hundred dollar

advance, and smiled. "Certainly. Do as you like, Mister Thobal.

Goodnight."



"Goodnight," said Vandor.



"Oh," she said, at the top of the stairs, "did I tell you that you have

kitchen privileges? Perhaps I should leave the padlock off the door

just in case...."



"I never _eat_--at the place I live," he said. "I usually dine _out_.

Thank you just the same."



"Very well," she said a little tartly, and exited to the kitchen and

re-padlocked the door. She was just snapping the padlock shut when Mrs.

Leonetti entered the kitchen.



"Something is the matter, Meesus Teebuts?" asked her roomer, setting a

bag of groceries on the table.



"Oh, just a new roomer," smiled Mrs. Tibbets. "I'm worried about him.

He looks so sickly. I wonder if I should have rented him that room.

Liable to catch his death of pneumonia."



"Pah. Always you worry too much," said Mrs. Leonetti. "If it's not the

one thing, it's the other."



"But the cellar ..." said Mrs. Tibbets, with a little shiver. "It's so

_damp_."



"He's-a live in the _cellar_?"



"He--He seemed to _prefer_ it."



Mrs. Leonetti shrugged, and began putting away her purchases in the

refrigerator. "Well, if he likes, he likes. I'm-a have an uncle once,

he likes to live in the attic and fly kites from-a the window."



"It takes all kinds, I guess," said Mrs. Tibbets.



"Sure it does," said Mrs. Leonetti, dismissing the subject. "Say, I'm-a

gonna make a big pot spaghett'. Maybe you can-a bring him a plate. Warm

him up good."



"That's a wonderful idea!" said Mrs. Tibbets. "But--" her face fell.

"He'll probably be going to work. He works nights."



Mrs. Leonetti shrugged. "Is okay. I cook fast. If he's-a there when you

go down, you give him. If he's-a _no_ there, you eat yourself. Okay?"



"A fine idea," Mrs. Tibbets smiled.



       *       *       *       *       *



An hour later, Mrs. Tibbets tiptoed down into the cellar, with a

steaming covered dish in her hands. She knocked on the door of Vandor's

room, but there was no response.



"Oh, I've missed him," she complained aloud. "But maybe he's just

stepped out for cigarettes or something. I can leave it for him."



She set the dish on the closed lid of the wooden box, and went back

into the cellar proper, searching in the heaped cartons until she found

a blank sheet of paper.



"Dear Mister Thobal," she scribbled, "if this has gotten cold when you

return, feel free to use the stove to heat it up. Mrs. Leonetti, one

of your fellow roomers, made it. It's really quite good, if you like

Italian food. It's got a bit too much _garlic_ in it for my taste."



Smiling, she signed the note, and went back upstairs.



She was awakened just before dawn by a hand upon her shoulder, shaking

her violently. She sat up in bed, very startled, and flicked on the

bedside lamp.



"_Mis_ter Thobal!" she said in horror, drawing the bed-clothes about

her, "How _dare_ you come into a lady's _bedroom_ at--" she consulted

her alarm clock "--at four in the _morning_, and--"



"Mrs. Tibbets!" he interrupted in an anguished voice that went straight

to her woman's heart, "would you _kindly_ come down to my room and

remove that _garlic_-stinking thing from my _cof_--my horticulture box?"



"At four in the morning?" she said, testily.



"Look--" he said, quivering with some emotion she could not fathom,

"Dawn will be breaking soon, and I'd _like_ to be asleep when it does.

I can't sleep at all once it's bright out."



"Well," she said, slipping into her flannel robe despite her

misgivings, "can't you remove it yourself?"



"No--" he said, miserably, "I'm _allergic_ to garlic. I appreciate the

thought, but would you please remove that plate from my room. The very

redolence of that odor, even when you've taken it away, will make me

ill for the rest of the day. _Please_ hurry!"



"Oh, _all_ right, _all_ right," she said, huffily, leading the way

downstairs, with Vandor Thobal looming after her like an ominous black

cloud.



"Well, I hope you're happier now," she said, holding the plate in

her hands as she stood outside the door of Vandor's tiny room. "If

the smell is going to bother you, I can bring you down a bottle of

Airwick--"



"No, please," he protested, his white face tinged with greenish gray.

"You've done enough already. Just--" he darted an anxious glance behind

him, where the grimy windowpane was beginning to glow pink, "Just go

upstairs and padlock the door. I've got to get to _sleep_!"



"Maybe if I brought you some flowers--" she began.



"No!" he wailed. "No Airwick, no flowers, _nothing_! I'll be getting

along fine, if you'll just leave!"



"Well.... If you're sure--" she said.



"Positive!" he said, though his voice sounded oddly weak. There was

a reddish glow in the room from the tiny window. "Now ... please ...

go...." His voice faded.



"All right," she smiled, closing the door. "Pleasant dreams."



The only answer was a scuffling of feet and a muffled slamming sound.

Mrs. Tibbets cocked her head, shrugged, and went back upstairs.



She was worried about her new roomer.



       *       *       *       *       *



Two weeks later, she was still worried. She felt it was her

responsibility, in a way, to keep him healthy. After all, if he got

sick, might not the local authorities protest her renting out such a

damp, germ-breeding place?



She was too worried to even share in Mrs. Leonetti's misgivings about

the mysterious attacks in the neighborhood. Mrs. Leonetti was afraid

to go out at night, what with the mounting number of men and women

found pale-faced and incoherent in their beds in the mornings, though

now and then they'd be found upon the grass in the park, or slumped in

a doorway on the main street. The police were calling them "attacks"

because the word was ambiguous enough to refer either to a malefactor

of some sort or just a poor state of the victims' health.



It was Mrs. Tibbets' opinion that it was just "something that was going

'round." She thought of it hardly at all, unless Mrs. Leonetti brought

the topic up. Mostly, she was worried about Mister Thobal. Perhaps _he_

was getting whatever was laying these others low. He certainly didn't

_look_ very healthy.



"Vitamin deficiency," said Mrs. Leonetti, in reply to a query of Mrs.

Tibbets. "He's-a no got the right vitamins. I'm-a read in a medical

story in a magazine. It's-a called a vitamin deficiency."



"Don't see how I can help him, then," sighed Mrs. Tibbets. "No way to

get vitamins to the man if he doesn't eat his meals here."



She brooded and worried about the state of her roomer's health until

she could think of nothing else. She rarely saw him. Only the few times

she went down into the cellar to "get something" she "needed" from one

of the cartons did she see him. He never, after that first night, came

into the upstairs part of the house at all.



"He could be sick, dead, or dying," she said to herself. "And I'd never

find out until the five hundred dollars was used up. It's my _duty_ to

check on him."



So every so often, making some excuse or other, she'd go downstairs

and rummage through the dusty cartons there, hoping for a glimpse of

him, still alive. But he never came out of the room by day, and at

nightfall, she wasn't quite up to facing him in the darkened cellar

alone.



When an entire week had passed without her so much as catching a

glimpse of him, she couldn't stand it any longer.



"I'll just peep into his room, quietly, and see if he's all right,"

she said to herself.



But just to be on the safe side, she waited till almost sunset. "That

way," she assured herself, "if I _do_ waken him, it'll be about time

for him to get up for work anyhow."



       *       *       *       *       *



Being as silent as she could, she crept down into the cellar, and

cautiously opened the door of his room. The cot was still folded, up

against the wall.



"How strange," she said, entering the room. There was nothing there to

show the room's occupancy except his wooden box against the far wall

under the window.



"I wonder--" she said, half-aloud, "where he's gone to?"



At that moment, the sun went down, and the lid of the box opened up.



"Yipe!" said Mrs. Tibbets, as Vandor Thobal sat up in the box. His

hands arrested themselves in the process of brushing the soil from his

cloak.



"What are you doing in here!?" he demanded.



"What are _you_ doing _there_?" she countered, folding her arms.



Vandor swallowed, then seemed to think of something. "The mushrooms,"

he explained, rising to his awesome full height before her, the tiny

clods of earth rolling off his cloak back into the box. "They--They

need heat, you see. It's rather chilly here in the cellar at night, and

so, I've taken to sleeping in there, hoping my body heat will suffice

to help them grow."



"I never heard of such a thing!" said Mrs. Tibbets.



"Did you never hear of a chicken incubating an egg?" he said smoothly.



Mrs. Tibbets was taken aback at this. "Why--Yes, of course, but--"



"It's the same principle, really," he said, flashing his pointed teeth

in a wide smile at her.



"Yes--" she said, with a funny cold feeling inside her. "Yes, I suppose

it is."



Suddenly, without another word, she turned about and hurried upstairs.

She couldn't get the padlock on the door fast enough to suit her.



       *       *       *       *       *



"Whew!" she gasped, sinking into a kitchen chair. "I've never been so

jittery in my life."



At the rear window of the kitchen, just over the cellar door, she heard

something, a kind of beating, flapping sound, but when she turned to

look through the window, there was nothing there.



"Brrr," she shuddered. "Someone must be walking over my grave."



She began to make a pot of tea to warm herself up. She was having her

second cup when the bright idea struck her.



"He'll be so grateful," she said, hurrying into the front hall to

search through the junk in the closet there. She hadn't liked the look

in his eyes when she'd last seen him. Perhaps he'd be so angry with her

that he'd leave, and then she'd have to refund what remained of the

five hundred dollars. This really gave her something to worry about.



"But," she half-sang to herself, taking out the box from the closet,

"this will make him change his mind. _Anyone_ would be grateful not to

have to sleep in a dirty old box like that another night...."



       *       *       *       *       *



"Hello!" she chirped, as Vandor opened the door to his room. "I got up

early to surprise you."



"Mrs. Tibbets ..." he said, closing the door behind him with an odd,

intent stare, "for once, I am very glad to see you."



He approached her slowly, towering over her in his enormous black

cloak, his pallid hands reaching out toward her.



"You--You are?" she said, in a very small voice.



"Yes," he said, eyes and teeth glinting. "I had a rather ...

_unfruitful_ ... night's work. But now I feel that everything will soon

be all right."



His gaze shifted from her eyes to her throat, and she suddenly felt

chilly.



"Mister Thobal," she said quickly, "I have good news for you."



"You have?" he said, surprised into halting a few paces from her. "For

me? You have news for me?"



"Yes," she said, with what she hoped was infectious delight. "You won't

have to sleep in that dirty box anymore.... Look!"



She turned to her left and, reaching out a hand, flicked a switch.



Instantly, reflecting from the inner walls and soil of the box, a

bright, warm light came alive.



"It'll keep your mushrooms _much_ warmer than _you_ ever could!" she

said, turning back to him. "It's a _sunlamp_!"



But, as she completed her turn, Vandor Thobal was not in evidence. His

suit, cloak, and shoes were still there, however, sagging horribly into

a viscous brown-and-green puddle on the floor of the room.



"Goodness!" said Mrs. Tibbets, leaping to her feet. "Now I _am_

worried!"





                                THE END













*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN WHO WAS PALE ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.