"If this works," he muttered softly, more to himself than to his

assistant, "we will have a communication beam that will be better than

radio."



The green line wriggled and changed form. Slowly, as the physicist

manipulated the controls, the green line stopped moving.



"There!" shouted Wolstadt, "that is the wave form we want!" He reached

over toward a switch. "Check your meters, Magruder!"



The assistant carefully adjusted the recording instruments of the huge

machine that filled half the laboratory. "All right, Dr. Wolstadt,

we're ready."



"Good!" Wolstadt pressed the switch.



The assistant watched the meters and automatic graphs.



"I'm afraid it didn't work, sir," he said at last. "The instruments

aren't reacting as you expected."



Wolstadt shrugged resignedly. "Nevertheless, I think we are on the

right track. Come, my boy, we will try again."



He shut off the machine.



The machine hadn't done what the scientists had expected of it, but

it had another effect which was entirely unknown to them. During

the few seconds of operation, an invisible ray had been beamed out of

the machine. At the speed of light, the ray went through the wall of

the lab and into Dr. Wolstadt's study. Like an X-ray, it went through

the books and references on the physicist's desk. In a straight line,

it shot out of the laboratory, silent and invisible. A mile or so

farther on, it struck the Pentagon Building and went through. Among

other things, it went through a complete copy of the _Encyclopedia

Brittannica_, Roget's _Thesaurus_, the _Oxford Unabridged Dictionary_,

a twenty volume set of _The History and Analysis of Military Tactics_,

and a copy of _Amazing Stories_ that some general had left on his desk.



Like a flashlight going through plateglass, the beam went through

files, papers, memorandums, abstracts, reports, desks, chairs, brick,

stone, and concrete. Through the Pentagon and across the Potomac it

went, through building after building, unnoticed and invisible.



Then, on the far side of Washington, D.C., several miles from the

laboratory of Dr. Wolstadt, it struck the head of a human being.



       *       *       *       *       *



Philip Merriwether was a nobody. He made thirty-five dollars a week at

a very dull job and lived in a cheap rooming house that had been built

around 1880 and not remodeled since. He was still wearing a suit he had

bought in 1947, and on his thin, five-foot-four frame, it looked even

older. His education had stopped at the sixth grade, and he had almost

flunked out of that. He had a mousy face, stringy hair, and a dull look

in his eyes.



In other words, he was just about as nobody as a human being can get

without being an absolute bum.



It wasn't that Phil Merriwether was really stupid; he was simply

afflicted with an incredibly bad memory. He could forget more in five

minutes than he could learn in five years. Oh, he could remember

commonplace things easily enough--his name, where he lived, things like

that. He could read and write tolerably well, although his spelling

was intolerable. He could add and subtract with fair ease, but,

having forgotten most of the multiplication table, he found "higher

mathematics," such as long division, almost impossible to do without

hours of laborious thinking.



In a way, his poor memory was economically useful. Phil loved to read

mystery stories, and, having collected a total of fifty-seven paperback

editions of the better detective novels, he found that there was no

necessity of buying more, because he could re-read the old ones. By the

time he got around to them again, he had forgotten the plot and the

identity of the murderer. Naturally, he never tried to solve any of

them; he could never remember the clues.



In routine work, Phil Merriwether was fairly efficient. If he did

something every day, he could remember it overnight, and could do it

again the next day. But his superiors soon found out that it was almost

disastrous to give him a vacation, because he had a tendency to forget

what he was supposed to do when he came back to work. That is, if he

remembered to show up for work.



In spite of all that, Phil was a nice sort of fellow. He was likable,

in a dull sort of way, and got along with most of his fellow workers.

He couldn't tell funny stories, of course, nor play a decent game of

cards, but he was an excellent conversationalist because, no matter

what was said to him, he could never think of an argument against it.

He was a good listener because he hadn't anything to say.



But his favorite pastime was walking. He liked to stroll around the

nation's capital, taking in the sights, and just plain enjoying

himself. He always walked the same route every night; if he didn't,

he was likely to get lost. Once, several years earlier, he had taken

a wrong turn and ended up in unfamiliar territory. He had asked a

passer-by how to reach his address, but had forgotten the instructions,

and so had ended up hopelessly lost. He had finally been forced to take

a taxi home, a luxury he could ill afford. After that, he stuck to his

routine.



It was on one of these evening strolls that a very peculiar thing

happened to Philip Merriwether. He was walking slowly along the

sidewalk, carefully minding his own business, when, without warning,

there was a strange, buzzy feeling in his head. It grew stronger; it

felt like someone was playing a fire-hose on his brain. His skull felt

as though it were suddenly being filled with a vast, overpowering

torrent of _words_--hundreds of words; thousands of words; millions

upon millions of words!



Under the pressure of this verbal onslaught, Philip Merriwether's mind

reeled. He pressed his palms to his temples and fainted dead away.



       *       *       *       *       *



When he came to, there were several passers-by crowded around him. One

of them was kneeling by his side, taking his pulse.



"Ha--Wha--what happened?" he asked, unoriginally enough.



"You fainted," said the man who was taking his pulse. "Just lie still;

it's all right. I'm a physician."



"Fainting," said Phil, "is normally a mild form of shock in which the

blood vessels of the abdomen become distended and engorged with blood,

thus reducing the blood pressure and temporarily depriving the brain of

its normal oxygen supply, which causes momentary loss of consciousness."



The doctor blinked. "What? Oh. Yes. That's quite correct, sir. Do you

have these attacks often."



Phil's mouth had remained open after his last word. After a minute, he

gulped. "Did I say that?"



"What?" the doctor asked for a second time. "Do you feel all right?"



Phil Merriwether stood up hastily. "My head feels a little funny, but

I think I'm all right."



"If you want to go to a hospital--"



"No, no, thank you. I'm all right, really I am. I feel completely

resuscitated, thanks to your therapeutic ministrations."



"Think nothing of it, sir. My duty, you know," said the physician.



"The Oath of Hippocrates," said Phil, "makes it obligatory for the

physician to alleviate suffering, illness, and infirmity, and induce

salubrity in his fellow man in the most efficacious manner at his

command."



"Uh, yes, of course," said the doctor, looking baffled. "Well, good

luck." With that, he picked up his black bag and walked rapidly off in

the opposite direction. The other passers-by had already gone about

their business.



Phil, meanwhile, began walking towards his home, his head still feeling

a little peculiar. What was the matter with him? What had happened? And

where on Earth had he gotten all those big words?



_Polysyllabic vocables_, said a voice in his mind, _although recognized

by the erudite as not being necessarily indicative of scholarly

attainments, are nevertheless profoundly impressive to the hoi polloi._



Phil nodded slowly to himself. Yeah, big words were impressive, all

right. But where had he picked them all up?



"I'd better go home and take an aspirin," he said aloud.



_Aspirin_, said the voice, _is the acetic acidester of salicylic acid,

a white, crystalline solid having the empirical formula_--



Holding his hands to his ears, Philip Merriwether ran home as fast as

his spindly legs could propel him.



       *       *       *       *       *



B. J. Holly, office manager for Starr & Sons, Inc., flipped a switch on

his desk intercom. "Where is Merriwether?" he snapped. "That boy was

supposed to have picked up these letters for filing half an hour ago. I

can't wait any longer."



"Mr. Merriwether phoned in this morning, sir," said the secretary's

voice. "He said he was a little ill, and he'd be late. He--oh! Just a

moment, sir; he just came in."



"Send him in here!" ordered B. J. Holly.



Mr. Holly frowned at Phil Merriwether as soon as the door opened.

"Under the weather a bit, eh, Merriwether?"



Phil nodded. "Yes, sir. My head feels queer."



Mr. Holly suppressed an impulse to remark that he wasn't at all

surprised. In his estimation, anyone with a head like Merriwether's

would feel odd all the time. But Mr. Holly, although somewhat

tyrrannical, and definitely a stuffed shirt, was not basically cruel,

so he said nothing that vicious.



"A bit of a hangover, perhaps?" he asked suspiciously.



Phil was picking up the papers for the file room. "No, sir," he said

absently. "A hangover is caused by the toxic effects of various

isomeric forms of higher alcohols and other impurities normally present

in alcoholic beverages, plus a depletion of vitamins, especially B-one,

in the system. I don't drink."



"I--uh--I see." But Mr. Holly did not see. He was totally baffled. He

watched in astonishment as Phil Merriwether walked out the door of the

office.



Merriwether, himself was slightly bemused. How had he done it? He knew

perfectly well what he was saying; a full night of thinking had managed

to bring to him the realization that something--he knew not what--had

happened to his memory. It seemed to him that there must be something

he could do with it, but he didn't quite know what.



The decision was practically forced upon him just before lunchtime. He

was putting on his coat to go out for lunch when B. J. Holly stepped

out of his office. The office manager was preparing to have lunch with

an out-of-town buyer, and as he stepped up to the visiting fireman, he

said: "Well, as General Pershing said: 'Lafayette, we are here!'" He

chuckled at his own wit, paying no attention to Merriwether.



"I beg your pardon, sir," said Phil, "but the general never said that;

as a matter of fact, he said later that it was put into his mouth by a

newspaperman. He said--"



B. J. glowered at him. An office boy, even if he is thirty-four years

of age, is not supposed to contradict his superior.



"Look, son," said B. J., "I happened to be there. I was only a private,

but I happened to be standing right next to him."



"That's impossible, sir," Phil said quietly. "According to Federal

records, you were born on April second, nineteen-oh-four. You were

only fourteen years old at the time. You have no military record with

the United States Army."



The out-of-town buyer suppressed a snicker. B. J. Holly turned purple

and said: "I'll see you after lunch."



       *       *       *       *       *



After lunch, Philip Merriwether lost the job he had held for five years.



At seven o'clock that night, he sat in a small bar, sipping

disconsolately at a glass of Coca-Cola. Not knowing where he was going

to get another job, he was trying to drown his thoughts in soda-water

and television. The show on the screen was "You Can't Lose," a quiz

show produced by the Boltman Automobile Corporation.



The quizmaster was grinning sardonically at the hapless contestant.

"You have arrived at the fifty thousand dollar question," he said.

"Since you chose geometry as your category, the question will be on

that subject. Are you ready?"



The contestant nodded unhappily.



"All right, here's the question: What is the value of _pi_ to eight

decimal places?"



Before the contestant could say a word, Phil muttered: "Three point

one four one five nine two six five--plus." He didn't notice what the

contestant said, but the quizmaster shook his head in mock sorrow. "I'm

sorry, sir, but the correct answer is: three point one four one five

nine two six five. Better luck next time."



The coarse, unshaven man standing next to Phil looked at him in awe.

"Hey, buddy," he said, "that's the ninth time you've answered right.

Why don't you get on that program and make yourself some dough?"



Phil blinked at his Coke and thought it over. Then his face brightened.

"Yeah," he said, grinning, "why don't I?"



       *       *       *       *       *



It took him three weeks to get into the studio, and by that time,

his severance pay was almost gone. He was nearly broke, and had no

prospects of a job. He _had_ to make good.



By pure chance, he was chosen as one of the first contestants. The

quizmaster beamed at him pleasantly.



"You understand the rules, don't you?" he asked. "All you have to

do...."



He went on, but Phil didn't hear him; he was too scared. When the first

question popped up, he said: "I beg your pardon?"



"I'll repeat the question," the quizmaster said. "You have chosen the

'General Category.' That pays twice as much, but it means I can ask you

any question I like. The first one was: 'Who were the Essenes?'"



Since the General Category questions paid off twice as much as the

Restricted Categories, they were about four times as hard. But that

didn't bother Phil Merriwether in the least.



"The Essenes," he said, "were an obscure Jewish sect which flourished

during the time of Christ, from before 100 B.C. to about 70 A.D. They

are believed to be instrumental in the composition of the so-called

Dead Sea Scrolls, which were discovered--"



"That's enough," the quizmaster said. "You've given the right answer!"

The orchestra sounded a chord. Applause followed.



"Second question: Listen carefully. Henry the Seventh's title was the

same as the title of the last Tudor king of England; the last Tudor

king had the same name. What was the name of the last Tudor ruler of

England?" The quizmaster smirked happily; the question was a trick one.



"Elizabeth the First was the last Tudor _ruler_," said Phil. "The last

Tudor _king_ was Henry the Eighth."



Naturally, the answer was right.



"Very good," said the quizzer. "Number three: what does

pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis mean?"



Phil closed his eyes and listened to the little voice inside his

head. He said: "It is an inflammation of the lungs caused by tiny

particles of rock dust; it is commonly known as 'silicosis' or 'miner's

consumption.'"



The quizmaster looked almost shocked, but, good showman that he was, he

managed to keep a bland expression on his face.



"That's _right_!" he bellowed.



Phil Merriwether grinned happily. He didn't know how it had come

about, but, somehow, something had filled his head full of all kinds

of amazing facts. It didn't matter what the question was, all Phil had

to do was think about it, and the answer was in his memory. He smiled,

waiting for the next question.



"You've come to the $25,000 question," said the MC. "If you want to go

on, you will have to be put in a soundproof booth so that you won't be

prompted by the audience. If you want to come back next week--"



"I'll take it now," said Phil Merriwether.



So they put him in a soundproof booth. All he could hear was the

announcer's voice.



Phil smiled to himself. Twenty-five thousand dollars so far! It was

fantastic! He'd never have to work again!



He answered the next question easily. Fifty thousand dollars! Fantastic!



The announcer said: "What is the mathematical formula for the world's

most powerful weapon?"



Phil grinned. That was simple. "The formula is: _i_ over _b_ times _a_

equals _pi_ to the _i_ times _e_ over _mu_," he said.



       *       *       *       *       *



"Ohhh, I'm sorry, sir," the announcer said sadly. "The basic

formula for the manufacture of the atomic bomb is: _E_ equals _m_

times _c_ squared. But you still have your fifty thousand dollars;

congratulations and better luck next time."



Phil Merriwether blinked. He could hardly believe it. He _knew_ his

answer was right. There must be a mistake. But no amount of argument

did him any good. Within fifteen minutes, he was out on the street.

The studio had promised that the check would be deposited to his

account in the morning. Phil shrugged and went home.



       *       *       *       *       *



At midnight, Philip Merriwether woke up suddenly to see the glare of a

flashlight being shone in his face.



"Are you Philip Merriwether?" growled a voice.



"Yes, I am. What's the meaning of this?"



The lights in the room went on to reveal five men with drawn guns

standing outside the door. As they came into the room, the man with the

flashlight flicked it off. "Search the room," he said to the others.



As they methodically began their search, Phil said: "What's going on

here? Who are you?"



"FBI," snapped the man who was obviously the leader of the group. "Are

you sure you're Philip Merriwether? We'll be taking your fingerprints

shortly, so it won't do you any good to lie."



"Certainly I'm me!" Phil snapped, irritated. "What makes you think I'm

not?"



"Never mind," said the Federal agent.



The truth was that Merriwether no longer looked like the lackluster

character he had been a few weeks before. His eyes had a sparkle to

them, his body had more springiness. He looked more alive. He was no

longer the colorless man he had been.



"Nothing unusual in the room, sir," said one of the men who had been

searching.



"Okay," said the leader to Merriwether, "put on your clothes. You're

coming with us."



"You can't arrest me!" Phil said. "I haven't done anything. What is the

charge?"



"Espionage," said the FBI man without blinking an eyelid.



They put him in a big, powerful Cadillac and drove him through the

streets of Washington to an office building near the Capitol. Most of

the city was asleep, but this building was ablaze with light. The FBI

men parked the car and led Phil into the building. They were greeted by

a reception committee the like of which Phil had never seen before.



Two generals, including the Chief of Staff, a couple of admirals, an

Air Force general, and a half dozen important-looking civilians, one of

whom Phil recognized as the Secretary of Defense himself!



They sat Phil down in a chair without a word, and just looked at him

for a few seconds; then the Secretary of Defense said: "What do you

know about the Q-beam?"



"The Q-beam," Phil told him, "is a top-secret weapon. It is a ray

which is capable of paralyzing without killing, and can operate over a

distance of several hundred miles. The basic formula is--"



"Never mind what it is!" snapped the Chief of Staff. "The whole United

States heard you give it out over the air this evening!"



"What else do you know about our defenses?" the Secretary asked.



Phil told them. He knew how big the atomic stockpiles were, where the

bombs were, and how they were to be used. He knew everything about the

ICBM rocket program and where the launching sites were. He knew where

every ship in the Navy was and what sort of armament it carried. He

told them where the secret airbases were hidden and how many bombers

were at each.



       *       *       *       *       *



As he continued, the officials became more and more nervous. They

fidgeted as each new piece of information was disclosed, and the flow

of information seemed endless.



At last the Secretary of Defense said: "That's enough!" His face was

white. He turned to the others. "Gentlemen, I think we can say without

doubt that we have captured the most cunning, clever, and dangerous spy

in the world. The question is: What shall we do with him?"



"How did you get this information?" one of the generals asked.



"I don't know," Phil said truthfully. "It just came to me."



"He won't talk," said an admiral.



"Who do you work for?" asked another.



"I used to work for Starr & Son, but they fired me three weeks ago."



"I mean, what country?"



"I don't work for _anybody_!"



The Secretary of Defense looked up at the FBI man.



"I want everything on this man--_everything_! He has to be investigated

as no other man has ever been. If possible, we want to know what this

man has been doing every second of his life ever since he was born!"



The FBI man nodded. "I'll have to check with the Chief, of course, but

I'm sure we can put every man in the Bureau on this job."



The Secretary nodded. "A few kidnap cases and things like that will

have to wait, but that's nothing compared to this."



The FBI man left, and the other men began grilling Phil Merriwether

again. It went on for hours.



       *       *       *       *       *



Phil Merriwether sat in the deepest, most secluded cell of the United

States Government's greatest security prison. He sat and thought,

his brain working more furiously than it had ever worked before. He

was tired and haggard from loss of sleep, and worn out from hours of

questioning. But that wasn't the worst of it. The entire top brass

of the government was in a stew over what they should do with Philip

Merriwether. The FBI could get no evidence on him; there was nothing to

prove he was a spy. And even if there had been, the case could never be

brought to court. Phil knew too much.



"Good heavens," he moaned, "how did I ever get into a fix like this?"



"You're a blabbermouth," he answered himself. "If you hadn't told them

all that stuff, you'd never have been in this jam!"



But how did he know all the information about the U.S. Government's

most top secret plans? It must have had something to do with that

fainting spell. How did that explain it?



"Well," he said to himself, "you've got a lot of information--use it!"



So he sat on the edge of the hard bunk, his mind searching for some

clue as to what had happened to him.



He was still sitting like that when the Secretary of Defense and

the President of the United States walked into the cell some hours

later. He had thought about all the data he had on every subject from

anthropology to zoology. It had something to do with neurology and

radiation physics, he was sure, but what?



And then, quite suddenly, the pieces clicked together.



When the Chief Executive walked into his cell, Phil beamed happily.

"I'm pleased to meet you, Mr. President."



The President frowned. "I must admit, Mr. Merriwether, that it is a

pleasure to meet you, too. I admire such abilities as yours, although

I also wish you had never been born. It seems you know more about our

national defense than I do."



"It's amazing," said the Secretary. "According to the FBI, this

fiendishly clever man has been masquerading as an ordinary blockhead

for more than thirty years. No one suspected his true genius. The

only thing we can't figure out is _why_ he shot off his mouth over

television."



Phil said: "Mr. Secretary, I didn't think about it. I didn't realize it

was so secret. I'm sorry. But I think I can show you how I got all this

information."



The President looked blank. "Show us? You mean you're willing to betray

your espionage system?"



"I don't have any spy system," Phil said. "Will you give me a pencil

and a piece of paper?"



The Secretary handed him a notebook and a ball-point pen, and Phil

began to write. "According to File X-99761, in the War Department's

Ultra Top Secret Section, a Dr. Heinrich Wolstadt is working on a

secret communication device. I'm putting some formulas on this paper.

Ask Dr. Wolstadt what effect this particular wave form would have on

the human brain."



The Secretary of Defense and the President looked at each other.



"I guess we might as well," the President said.



       *       *       *       *       *



It was several hours later that Dr. Wolstadt was rushed into Phil's

cell. He was so excited that his German accent became much heavier than

usual.



"Is this the chentleman? _Ach!_ It's amazing! How did it happen? You

were standing right in the path of the ray, _nein_?"



"I think so, Dr. Wolstadt. Didn't you suspect what effect the beam

might have had?"



"Never!" said the physicist. "Not until I saw your mathematics. It's

unbelievable to think this could happen!"



"For Heaven's sake!" said the President. "What happened?"



Wolstadt turned around to face the Chief Executive.



"It's very simple. The derivation of the Q-beam that I have been

working on got out of control for a second. It went through all my

files, and all the files in the Pentagon, and Heaven only knows what

else. It picked up all that information and put it in Mr. Merriwether's

mind!"



"Amazing!" said the President.



"Fantastic!" said the Secretary of Defense.



"Will it work with anybody?" the President asked.



Dr. Wolstadt shook his head. "No. This is a most unusual case. Mr.

Merriwether, according to the FBI reports, had a terrible memory before

the accident happened. He is actually a very intelligent man, but he

always forgot things, and that made him look stupid.



"But, fortunately, it meant that his memory was almost a total blank.

Therefore, the ray could implant all this data on his memory.



"It's like recording something on an L-P disc. If it already has

music on it, the recorder just ruins the disc. But if it's blank, the

recorder puts music on it. You see?"



"Then if it had hit anyone but me--" Phil began.



"--it would probably have driven them insane," said Dr. Wolstadt.



"That still leaves us the problem of what to do with Mr. Merriwether,"

said the President.



"I think I have an idea," Phil said. "Want to hear it?"



       *       *       *       *       *



Some months later, two men arrived by air in the city of Moscow. One of

them went directly to the American Embassy. In his brief case was a

small, very compact machine.



The Ambassador shook his hand warmly. "The President told me to give

you the run of the place, Dr. Wolstadt. What are you going to do?"



"I'm sorry," said Wolstadt, "but I cannot tell even you. All I require

is a room in the Embassy which faces the Kremlin."



"That can be arranged. But where is your companion? I understood there

were to be two of you."



"He is, shall we say, taking a stroll around Moscow."



"But he can't do that!" the Ambassador said. "The President said he was

the most valuable man on Earth! He might get arrested."



"That is the chance we have to take. Now if you'll show me to that

room, I'll go about my business."



Some distance away, on the opposite side of the Kremlin from the

American Embassy, Philip Merriwether, the most valuable spy that ever

existed, waited patiently for the ray that would be generated inside

the Embassy to strike his head. In a few seconds, he would know even

more than he already did.



He smiled happily. This was the life!





                                THE END











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN WHO KNEW EVERYTHING ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.