It was amused, that live thing in the room. It was diverted by the one

gasp of pure terror he had given at the first sound it made.



The murderer stood teetering upon his toes, with his hand outstretched

and touching the wall, fighting against an unnameable fear. He was in

the right house, certainly. And in the right room. He could catch the

faint acrid reek of burnt smokeless powder. His senses were uncannily

acute. He could even distinguish the staling scent of the cigarette he

had lighted when he was here before.... This was the room in which he

had killed a man. Yonder, by the wide blotch of formless gray, there

was a chair, and in that chair there was an old man, huddled up, with a

bullet-wound in his throat and a spurt of deepening crimson overlaying

his shirt-front. The murderer who stood by the wall, sick with fear,

had killed him no more than half an hour before.



And there could not be anyone else in the house. The murderer listened,

stifling his breathing to deepen the silence. Nothing but the shrill

and senseless singing of a canary-bird that was one of the dead man's

two pets. The bird stopped, began again drowsily, and was silent. In

the utter stillness that followed, the vastly muffled purring of his

own motor-car reached the murderer, and the slow, drizzling sound of

rain, even the curious humming of the telephone wires that led away

from the house.



But then he heard the noise again, such a sound as might have been

made by a man drumming softly and meditatively upon a table with his

finger-tips. A tiny sound, an infinitely tiny sound, but the sound of

something alive. The murderer stifled a gasp. It came from the chair

where the dead man was sitting!



There was cold sweat upon the forehead of the man by the wall. It

seemed, insanely, as if the dead figure, sitting upright in its chair,

had opened its eyes to stare at him through the blackness, while the

stiff fingers tapped upon the table-cloth as they had done in life.



A surge of despairing hatred came to the murderer, while icy-cold

crawlings went down his spine. Those finger-tappings ... those furtive,

stingy fingers that were always so restless, always touching something,

always fumbling desirously at something.... Why, he'd shot the old

man when he was fumbling with his cigarette-case, avidly plucking out

a cigarette to smoke in secret, being too miserly to buy even the

cheapest of tobacco for himself.



The murderer felt some of his fear vanish. He'd shot the old man.

Killed him. He was dead. He'd made only one mistake. He'd made sure

the bullet went just where he intended, and then he'd fled, out to

the car and plunged away. No need to stop and rob. The dead man was

the murderer's uncle, and the state and the courts would deliver his

wealth in time. Everything was all right, except for one mistake, and

he'd come back to rectify that.



He deliberately fanned the hatred that had helped so much in the

commission of his crime, and now was crowding out his terror. He had

only to think of the old man to grow furious. Rich--and a miser.

Old--and a skinflint. He wouldn't keep a servant, because servants cost

money. He wouldn't keep a watch-dog, because watch-dogs had to be fed.

It was typical of him that he kept two pets as an economical jest--a

canary because it would eat bread-crumbs, and a cat because it would

feed itself. The murderer by the wall had seen the old man chuckling at

sight of the huge cat stalking a robin upon the lawn....



       *       *       *       *       *



The murderer moved forward confidently, now. He'd shot his uncle

as the old man was fumbling cigarettes out of the nephew's case.

He'd made sure that death had come, and he'd fled--but without the

cigarette-case. Now he'd come back for it. It had been foolish of him

to feel afraid....



He heard the drumming of reflective finger-tips upon the table-top.

Stark terror swept over him again, and he pressed on the button of his

flashlight.... The old, unprepossessing figure was outlined in full.

Grayed, unkempt hair, bushy eye-brows, head bent down, hand extended

toward the cigarette-case on the table.... All was as it should have

been. But the coat, the long, dingy coat that hung down from the

extended arm--that was moving! Muscles in the sleeve had been flexing

and unflexing. The coat was flapping back and forth. The man in the

chair was alive!



With a snarl, the murderer sprang forward, his hands outstretched. An

instant later he fell back with a rattle in his throat. The flesh he

had touched was cold and already rigid.



He stood still, fighting down an impulse to scream. The man in the

chair was dead. And then he heard that insane, deliberate tapping

again. He could feel the dead eyes upon him, gazing up from a

bent-forward head and looking through the bushy brows. A strange,

malevolent joy was possessing the dead thing. It was gazing at him,

tapping meditatively, while it debated a suitable revenge for its own

death.



The murderer cursed hoarsely and groped for the table. He was

livid with terror and a queer, helpless rage. He hated his victim,

dead, as he had never hated him living. His fingers touched the

cigarette-case--and it was jerked from beneath his touch.



The murderer choked. He had to have the cigarette-case. It was proof of

his presence--proof against which his carefully prepared alibi would be

of no use. He'd been seen to use it no more than an hour since, when he

left the house in which he was a weekend guest to come hurtling across

country for his murder. He had to have it!



And the tapping came again, insanely gleeful, diabolically reflective.

The man in the chair was beyond reach. No more harm could come to him.

And he could toy with the living man as a cat toys with a mouse.



Numb with unreasoning terror of the thing that was dead, and yet moved,

that was not two yards away and yet was removed by all the gulf between

the living and the dead, the murderer pressed the flashlight button

again. He clenched his teeth as he seemed to sense the stoppage of a

stealthy movement by the thing in the chair. His cigarette-case was

gone, missing from the table.



The flashlight beam swept about the room in a last flare of common

sense. It was empty. No one, nothing.... Nothing in the house except

the dead man, to seize that one small article which would damn the

murderer.



He remembered suddenly and switched off the light. There were

neighbors. Not near neighbors, but people who would notice the glow

of a flashlight if it met their eyes. They knew the old man for what

he was, and probably whispered among themselves of buried treasure or

hidden money. They would suspect a robber of like mind if they saw the

flashlight going.



They might have noticed it then! He had to get the cigarette-case and

go away quickly....



Forcing his brain to function while he was stiff with a terror that

he could not down, he masked the bulb with his fingers and let a

little ray trickle over the table. The old, claw-like hand. It seemed

to be nearer the telephone than it had been. The cloth table-top. No

monogrammed case. It had been there. He had seen it not two minutes

since. But it had vanished utterly.



The living man could have screamed with rage. He seemed to feel the

thing in the chair shaking with silent laughter. The chair was shaking!

God! It _was_ shaking!



The murderer fled to the doorway upon caving knees, his whole soul

writhing in panic. And then he heard the reassuring purring of his

motor-car, waiting to carry him away. Outside was sanity. Only within

was nightmarish horror. He could not go away and leave that case to

hang him....



He was grinding his teeth as he came back. He was doggedly desperate

in his resolution. He got down on his hands and knees and let a little

trickle of light slip between his fingers. Instinctively he kept out

of reach of the dead fingers. Not yet had he come to think of danger

there. The thing in the chair enraged him while it terrified him,

because it mocked him. But he would get this one thing and go....



       *       *       *       *       *



The floor was bare. The case had not fallen from the table to the floor.



He let his light go out again, while his scalp crawled. But he

could not go without the case. Leaving it, he left safety--perhaps

life--behind. There was no single thing to connect him with this murder

save that. His alibi was prepared, was perfect. But he had been seen to

use that case an hour ago. Found here, it would damn him. If it were

carried away, he would be unsuspected.



He had planned it perfectly. That was the only flaw in the whole plan,

and he had only to pick up the monogrammed case of silver to be both

safe and rich. Why, he'd even planned out the funeral! He would be

dutifully grieved. Some of the neighbors would be there--some because

it was the proper thing, but more from curiosity. The only person who

would really regret the old man's death would be the telephone-girl.

The old man paid her a small extra sum to give his line special

attention. It was, he said, his burglar-protection. And every month,

grudgingly, he paid her a small sum, with a deduction for each time he

could claim to have been kept waiting for a number.



There was a scratching sound from the chair. The murderer sprang to his

feet, his terror making his throat dry. The scratching came again, like

a fingernail on rough-polished sheet metal. The telephone! The thing in

the chair was reaching for the telephone!



The murderer acted without thought, in pure sweating fear. He sprang

like a wildcat. The table toppled heavily to the floor and the

telephone went spinning against the wall. He flung the extended wrist

aside....



It resisted his hand. And he jerked away and stood moaning softly, in

an ecstasy of fear and desperation.



Once more the feeling as if the thing in the chair were laughing,

shaking in silent, ghastly laughter. The one thing that held the

murderer in the room was the cigarette-case that could hang him. And

the thing was tormenting him and shaking in horrible mirth....



Long past the power to reason, the murderer brought forth all his

willpower. It was really a conflict between two fears, a panic-stricken

horror of the dead thing before him, and terror of a noose that awaited

him. He flashed his light despairingly--and saw the cigarette-case.



It was projecting invitingly from the pocket of the thing in the

chair. It had been on the table. It had been filched from beneath his

descending hand. It was in the dead man's pocket, as if tucked there

by stiff and clumsy fingers--or as if left projecting to lure him to a

snatch. And the extended hand, with its clawing fingers outstretched,

quivered a little as if with eagerness for him to make an attempt to

get it.



He whimpered. It was trying to get him to reach for the case,

invitingly in sight. But if he reached, he would be within the length

of its arms. And they would move stiffly but very swiftly to seize

him....



He whimpered. He dared not go without that case. He dared not reach

in his hand to seize it. He sobbed a little with pure terror. Then,

glassy-eyed with horror, he swung his foot in a sudden, nervous kick.

If he could kick the case from its insecure position, he could retrieve

it from the floor....



He was quivering. The kick failed. The thing remained motionless, but

it seemed to him that it was tensing itself for a sudden effort.... The

murderer wrung his hands. He kicked again, and sheer icy fear flowed

through his veins as he felt the soft resistance of the cloth against

his foot. But he missed.



He heard a curious little chuckling sound that could not possibly have

come from anything but a human throat. It was a human voice. It was

syllables, divided to form words, but words in a strangled, distant,

ghastly tone....



Drenched in the sweat of undiluted horror, the murderer swung his

foot a third time, desperately, with his eyes glassy and the breath

whistling in his throat.



Then he screamed....



The flashlight dropped to the floor. There was utter darkness. There

was no noise for seconds save those chuckling sounds. They were louder,

now. The murderer stood rigid, balanced upon one foot, his eyes

terrible. He screamed again. Something had hold of his foot. Something

grasped at his trouser-leg and tugged at it gently. Not strongly.

Gently. But it was tugging....



The murderer screamed and screamed, with his eyes the eyes of a man

in the depths of hell. Not because his foot was caught, but because

something was pulling him, weakly but inexorably, in furtive little

tugs, toward the man in the chair--who was dead.



Then sharp nails sank in his flesh and the murderer broke away. He

fell, and in falling his slipping foot crashed against the leg of the

chair, and that turned over upon him....



       *       *       *       *       *



The telephone operator had been listening since the receiver was flung

off its hook by the fall of the telephone. She had spoken several

times, asking what was wanted, and the sound had issued from the

receiver on the floor like--well--like the chuckle of a man amused

in a horrible fashion. When she heard screaming, she sent men to

investigate. And they found a dead man tumbled out of the chair in

which he had died, and another man crawling about the room. The living

man was crawling about on his hands and knees, his eyes wide and

staring and terrified, while a huge pet cat made playful pounces at his

trouser-leg, tugging at it, worrying it, pulling backward upon it. And

whenever the cat pulled at the bit of cloth, the living man screamed in

a sickly, terrified fashion.



[Illustration: "A huge pet cat made playful pounces at his trousers."]



They never did get at the rights of the matter, but the coroner was

somewhat annoyed by the cat, during the inquest. He was sitting in the

chair the dead man had sat in, beside the table on which the telephone

stood. And the cat buffeted his coat-tails; hanging down, with playful

pats of its paws. The sound was very much like that of a man drumming

softly and meditatively upon a table.



But it was not that which annoyed the coroner. He liked cats. What did

annoy him was the fact that he had put his lighted cigarette on the

edge of the table for an instant, and the cat sank its claws in the

table-cover. With the jerk, the cigarette fell from the table into the

coroner's pocket, and burned a hole through to the skin.



"If that cigarette had been in its case, now," said the coroner,

smiling at his own feeble joke, "it wouldn't have done any harm."











*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MURDERER ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.