

 THE SPERRY GYROSCOPE CO.



 MAIN OFFICE AND FACTORY



 MANHATTAN BRIDGE PLAZA.

 BROOKLYN, N.Y.



[Illustration: Man’s first venture in shipbuilding was the Raft.]



[Illustration]





THE SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY



 _Boston, Mass._

 60 VIRGINIA STREET



 _Great Lakes District_

 828 GUARDIAN BUILDING

 Cleveland, Ohio



 _San Francisco, Cal._

 52 DAVIS STREET



_Main European Office_: THE SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY, Ltd., 15 Victoria

Street, London, S. W. 1



—REPRESENTATIVES—



 _France_



 COMTE A. DeCHAMBURE

 37, Rue Bergere

 Paris



 GEORGES BREITTMAYER

 20, Rue Taitbout

 Paris



 F. J. DELVES

 20, Rue Taitbout

 Paris



 _Spain_



 F. WEYDMANN

 Victoria 2

 Madrid



 _Holland_



 TECHNISCH BUREAU VAN LEENT

 Nassaukade 17

 Ryswyk



 _Italy_



 F. P. CAMPERIO

 Via Bagutta 24

 Milan



 _Sweden_



 GRAHAM BROS.

 Stockholm



 _Denmark_



 C. KNUDSEN

 11 Kobmagagade

 Copenhagen



 _Norway_



 OTTO PLATOU

 Skovveien 39

 Christiania



 _Japan_



 MITSUI & CO., LTD.

 Tokyo



 MITSUBISHI ZOSEN KAISHA, LTD.

 Tokyo

 (For Ship Stabilizer)



 _Chili, Peru & Bolivia_



 WESSEL DUVAL & CO.

 25 Broad Street

 New York



[Illustration: An inflated ox-skin Balsa of earliest times.]





 THE

 SPERRY GYROSCOPE

 COMPANY



[Illustration]



 _Manufacturers of_



 GYRO-COMPASSES      GYRO SHIP STABILIZERS

 GUN-FIRE CONTROL APPARATUS      NAVIGATIONAL INSTRUMENTS

 NAVAL AND COMMERCIAL SEARCHLIGHTS



[Illustration: The ancient Egyptians built boats of rushes.]









_Putting the Earth to Work_





When the earth was thrown off from the sun and commenced rotating about

its own axis, there was developed a force generated by the earth’s

rotation. For countless centuries this force has been at work, but no

one has ever been able to harness it to serve the purposes of man. But

now, through the efforts of Foucault, Hopkins, Sperry, and other noted

scientists, this force has been put to work. It serves to direct a

thousand ships in their courses.



Of course, this is not the only force which has been used to guide

ships. Since 1297 A.D. mariners have used magnetic attraction as the

force by which to guide their vessels. For centuries seafaring men

sailed only in wooden ships, and were therefore satisfied with the

magnetic compass. Then came steam and steel. Navigation then instead of

being a hit or miss game of chance became the exact art of directing a

ship by the shortest possible course in the quickest possible time.



Now that ships cost millions of dollars to build and thousands of

dollars per day to operate, time has become the most essential element

in navigation. The development of ships from the sailing vessel to

the ocean greyhound has been one of the marvels of modern times.

But the development of the magnetic compass has not kept pace with

the development of the ships which rely upon it. Many of the great

trans-Atlantic liners are guided by practically the same type of

compass as that which Columbus used on the _Santa Maria_. The compass

on the wooden _Santa Maria_ pointed to magnetic north with a fair

degree of accuracy, but the compass on the steel greyhounds must

contend with many distractions.



For years magnetic compass designers spent their efforts to produce

compensating devices that would annul the effects of all external

influences, so that the magnetic compass would be free to indicate only

the direction of the earth’s magnetic lines. Very little has been done

to improve the compass itself—it still depends upon the attraction of

the Magnetic North Pole. The Sperry Gyro-Compass differs in principle

from any other compass. It is not magnetic. It derives its directive

force, not from magnetic attraction, but from the earth’s rotation.



[Illustration: Bearing Repeater on Upper Bridge.]



[Illustration: The Vikings crossed the Atlantic in open ships.]



There is certainly a crying need for this new type of compass. A ship

now-a-days costs millions of dollars and carries cargoes usually equal

in value to that of the ship. It has been estimated that inaccuracies

in navigation attending the use of the magnetic compass cause a yearly

loss of ships to the value of $70,000,000. No estimate can possibly be

made on the value of lives lost on these ships.



Millions of dollars are spent each year on charts, lighthouses, buoys,

geodetic and hydrographic surveys, and on compilation of notices to

mariners. Notwithstanding all of these, ships must ultimately depend

upon their compasses for their safety and efficiency of navigation.



Inaccuracies in navigation can be eliminated by the use of a reliable

compass. The Sperry Gyro-Compass puts the earth to work. It utilizes a

force which is as unvarying as the law of gravity, a force that cannot

be interfered with by any other influence.





How the Earth’s Rotation Is Utilized



Any wheel rotating at a high speed about its own axis, and free to

place itself in any plane, is called a _Gyroscope_. The _Gyroscope_ is

the instrument which utilizes the earth’s rotation as a force to direct

the course of ships.



Suppose you were to place such a small wheel supported by its axis upon

a larger wheel which also is revolving. The rotation of the larger

wheel would so influence the smaller wheel that its axis would point

in the same direction as the axis of the larger wheel. Why this is the

case does not concern us here. Let it suffice that the larger wheel

will cause the smaller wheel to behave in this manner. This is in

accordance with a natural law. This law operates as unfailingly as the

law which causes an unsupported body to fall to the ground.



[Illustration: Preparing Master Compass for Test.]



Suppose the larger wheel happens to be the earth, which in reality

is a revolving wheel. Suppose further, the small wheel is a Sperry

Gyro-Compass. In accordance with this natural law just outlined the

smaller wheel, or Gyro-Compass, will point its axis in the same

direction as the axis of the earth, or, in other words, to the true

or geographical North Pole. This explanation of the principle of

gyroscopic motion is necessarily crude. The principle itself has

been established beyond any reasonable doubt. It can be proved by

mathematics to the satisfaction of the most exacting scientist and has

been demonstrated, throughout the navies of the world, to practical

seamen.



The final result is that we have a principle which enables us to

construct an instrument which will place itself in the true geographic

north and south meridian, and that it responds to no influence or

impulse other than the earth’s unvarying rotation.



[Illustration: Galley-slaves drove the Triremes of ancient Rome.]



[Illustration: FIGURE 1.



THE EARTH SURROUNDED BY ROTATING WHEELS AS IT APPEARS TO AN IMAGINARY

OBSERVER LOOKING AT IT FROM THE SIDE.]



[Illustration: FIGURE 2.



THE EARTH SURROUNDED BY ROTATING WHEELS AS IT APPEARS TO AN IMAGINARY

OBSERVER LOOKING DIRECTLY AT THE SOUTH POLE]



[Illustration: A War-ship, “when knighthood was in flower”.]









_How a Compass is Used_





The purpose of a compass is to indicate direction. The relative

position of the North Pole to any point on the earth’s surface is

called North. We figure all direction from this conception. This

geographical North Pole is called the True North. About 800 miles from

this True North Pole is a spot which has a strange magnetic attraction.

The needle of the magnetic compass, if undisturbed by local influences,

points to this spot, and not to the True North Pole. This spot is

called the Magnetic North Pole. This mysterious attractive spot is not

stationary. It moves about from year to year within a wide circle.



Inasmuch as the navigator must refer to True North, he must determine

the angle or variation between True North and Magnetic North as

indicated by his magnetic compass. This determination is made

comparatively easy by using charts which express in degrees the

difference between Magnetic North and True North for any point on the

earth’s surface.



Such a chart is shown in Figure 3. Also on each chart used by a

navigator for a particular locality there is marked a compass rose in

which is recorded the variation for that exact spot as of a certain

date, and in addition the rate at which the variation changes annually,

Figure 4.



Navigation along a coast line where sights can be taken on buoys or

lighthouses is simple, and is termed “piloting.” This, of course, can

be done without the aid of a compass.



[Illustration: Master Compasses Awaiting Shipment.]



Upon getting to open sea the mariner checks his position in a similar

manner, by observing the position of his ship in relation to the

position of the sun, moon or stars. Between observations the position

of a ship is determined by “dead reckoning.” The distance it has

traveled from the last known position is measured by the ship’s log

and the direction is indicated by the compass. Very often for days

at a time, owing to weather conditions, it is impossible to get an

observation or sight on a celestial body. During this run the navigator

is dependent entirely upon the compass. The slightest error in the

compass, due to variation or deviation, in such circumstances will

cause the ship to be miles out of its course, and the actual position

will be far from the calculated position.



[Illustration: Crusaders sailed to Palestine in ships like this.]



[Illustration: Figure 3, Figure 4.]



[Illustration: The Santa Maria carried Columbus to the new world.]









_The Ideal Compass_





If you were to conceive of a compass which would be free from all the

troubles and errors found in most compasses, which would relieve you of

all the worry and care the present compass requires, a compass which

would be accurate and reliable, a compass which would be the Ideal

Compass under all conditions, you would undoubtedly conceive of a

compass that had the following characteristics:



1. It must point True North.



2. It must free you from the necessity of making calculations and

corrections.



3. It must free you from compensating the compass for errors.



4. It must free you from the burden of swinging the ship, or otherwise

taking the deviation of your compass.



5. It must not be influenced by inherent magnetism of the ship.



6. It must not be influenced by any change in the character or

disposition of the cargo.



7. It must not be influenced directly or indirectly by any temperature

changes.



8. It must not be influenced by the roll or pitch of the ship.



9. It must not be influenced by any weather conditions.



10. In the event of failure, or error, it should give instant warning.





Comparison of the Magnetic Compass with the Sperry Gyro-Compass



Let us compare the Magnetic Compass with the Sperry Gyro-Compass and

determine which more nearly approaches the Ideal Compass.



[Illustration]





True North





The Magnetic Compass



The Magnetic Compass does not point to True North, it points to

Magnetic North, which is about 800 miles from the True North Pole.





The Sperry Gyro-Compass



The Sperry Gyro-Compass, which is not a Magnetic Compass, and is not

affected by a magnetism of any sort, and derives its directive force

from the earth’s rotation, points True North. It does not point to the

Magnetic North Pole.



[Illustration: A Galleon, the treasure ship of the Spanish Main.]



[Illustration]





Freedom From Calculation



Every time a ship’s course is laid or changed, or its position noted,

the navigator must make and apply calculations to correct the errors

caused by variation of the earth’s magnetic fields, and deviation due

to local conditions about the ship. Mistakes are frequently made in

applying the correction factors by applying them to the wrong side. An

error is thus introduced, which in magnitude is twice the correction

factor. Instances are reported of ships being 200 miles out of their

courses as a result.



The Gyro-Compass requires no corrections since it is undisturbed by

variations or any local magnetic conditions. The reading indicated

by the Sperry Gyro-Compass is not approximate—it is absolutely and

immediately correct. It is not necessary to correct the course every

few hours for variation—the navigator is freed from the necessity of

making calculations.



[Illustration]





Freedom From Compensation



After the navigator has made calculations for the deviation errors of

the Magnetic Compass, they must be applied by means of manipulating

the soft iron globes and compensating magnets. This is an operation

requiring such a high degree of skill that only trained men called

Compass Adjusters are qualified for the work.



The occasional turning of a thumb nut is the only compensation

necessary in the use of a Sperry Gyro-Compass. No tables or curves are

required. The ship’s Navigating Officer makes this adjustment with

ease.



[Illustration: A Ship of the Line, the dreadnought of former days.]



[Illustration]





Freedom From Checking Deviation



Each time a compass is compensated it is necessary to check the

compensation by checking the deviation on various headings. This may be

done by the use of deflector magnets. A more exact method is to swing

the ship in a circle while bearings are taken of a known object on land

and the deviation noted on various headings. The sun is often taken as

a reference point for this purpose.



It is never necessary to swing ship or to correct the Gyro-Compass

for either variation or deviation of any kind. Where a Gyro-Compass

and a magnetic compass are both used on a ship, the ship may be swung

to correct the magnetic compass—the Gyro-Compass furnishing true

headings. The time required is thereby materially shortened.



[Illustration]





Influences Due to Magnetism of the Ship



When a steel ship is building a sub-permanent magnetism is induced in

its keel, hull, and plates. It causes a compass deviation classed as

“semi-circular.” This deviation must be compensated for.



As a ship moves through the earth’s magnetic fields in its varying

quantities and directions, a temporary and varying magnetism is induced

in the soft iron of the ship. The resultant deviation is classed as

“quadrantal,” and must be compensated for.



The Sperry is not a Magnetic Compass. Hammering, riveting, and moving

through magnetic fields may induce magnetism in the ship, but will have

no effect upon the Sperry Gyro-Compass.



There is no condition of the ship or cargo for which the Gyro-Compass

must be corrected.



[Illustration: An American Clipper, highest type of sailing ships.]



[Illustration]





Influences Due to Cargo



Change in the character or disposition of the cargo of the ship causes

a change in the magnetic fields surrounding the compass. These changes

must be compensated for.



The Sperry Gyro-Compass is not affected by any cargo. A cargo of iron

ore has no more effect upon it than a cargo of cotton. You could even

carry a load of strong magnets without causing the slightest deviation.



[Illustration]





Influences Due to Temperature Changes



Changes in the temperature of the stack, due to shifting of the wind

and force of draft, vary its magnetic characteristics. Consequently the

Magnetic Compass is affected.



Temperature changes do not influence the Sperry Gyro-Compass.



No matter what the conditions are that change the magnetic

characteristics of the stack, ship or cargo, they cannot affect the

Gyro-Compass, as it has nothing whatever to do with magnetism.



[Illustration: Fulton’s Clermont ushered in the age of steam.]



[Illustration]





Influences Due to Roll and Pitch of the Ship





The Magnetic Compass



Another error, called heeling error, is caused by the change in the

disposition of the material of the ship with reference to the compass.

It is brought about when the ship rolls. For example, a ship heading

on a northerly course would, if rolled to port, place all magnetic

material of the ship to the eastward of the compass. This pulls the

north end of the compass to the eastward. The action and effect would

be just opposite to this on a roll to the starboard. The result is that

the needle is caused to oscillate in either direction. The helmsman

in his attempt to keep “on” will cause the ship to traverse a sinuous

course.



The card and needle of the magnetic compass are placed in a bowl

filled with a liquid. The purpose in so doing is to make the action

of the card somewhat sluggish, so that it will not follow very slight

magnetic distractions or ship movements. Every time the course of the

ship is changed the sluggish action, due to adhesion between the bowl,

liquid and card, pulls the compass off the meridian. Official test has

shown that from three to four minutes are required for the compass to

overcome this “lag.” The “lag” is somewhat less in the dry card compass.





The Sperry Gyro-Compass



Not only is the Sperry Gyro-Compass unaffected by magnetic conditions,

resulting from the heeling error, but before being placed upon the ship

it is tested for days under conditions simulating the motion of the

ship in the most severe storm.



A ship steered by the Gyro-Compass traverses a straight line course;

the Gyro-Compass does not oscillate with the rolling of the ship. It is

not necessary for the helmsman to use as much helm to keep the ship on

her course. A great saving is made in the use of the steering engine.



There is no “lag” in the Sperry Gyro-Compass, because it does not leave

the meridian, no matter which way or how quickly the ship may turn or

zig-zag. Exhaustive tests have been conducted on compasses installed on

torpedo boat destroyers. Even when zig-zagging at top speed in heavy

seas the Gyro-Compass shows no “lag.”



Traveling the straight line course instead of the sinuous course, ships

equipped with the Sperry Gyro-Compass have saved from one to ten per

cent in time over the average schedule time required to cover their

courses when steering by the magnetic compass.



[Illustration: The Savannah, first steamship to cross the ocean.]



[Illustration]





Warning of Unreliability



Due to magnetic storms and any number of other causes the magnetic

compass may at any time be distracted so that it does not indicate

correctly. Disturbances are extraneous and their direction and

magnitude cannot be determined. The navigator is constantly subject to

the feeling that his compass may not be accurate—that he cannot depend

on it.



About the only thing that will cause an error in the Gyro-Compass is

the failure of the electrical power supply. Should this contingency

occur an electric bell warns the navigator. Any disturbances must

originate with the master compass and can be quickly and accurately

located.



       *       *       *       *       *



The Sperry Gyro-Compass unfailingly points True North under all

conditions of weather, ship or cargo. It relieves the navigator of

calculation of errors, and tiresome compass compensations. It makes a

great saving in time required to “swing ship.” The Sperry Gyro-Compass

is, therefore, the Ideal Compass.



[Illustration]



[Illustration: The Great Eastern laid the first Atlantic cable.]









_Advantages Attending the Use of the Sperry Gyro-Compass_



During the construction of a steel ship it is usual to build it on ways

the direction of which lie in the East-West line. Should the ways be

placed in a North-South line the riveting on the keel and plates tends

to help the molecules of metal to place themselves parallel to the

magnetic lines of force, and magnetize the metal. When placed in the

East-West line the molecules of metal in the plates are at right angles

to the magnetic lines of force, and are not as easily magnetized. The

use of the Gyro-Compass eliminates the necessity of placing the ways in

the East-West line.



After a large ship has been launched, and during the fitting out

period, it is often necessary to have it swung end for end in order to

neutralize or equalize the magnetism induced by the earth’s magnetic

field. To swing a large ship end for end costs anywhere from one

thousand ($1000) to three thousand ($3000) dollars. The Gyro-Compass

is unaffected by any magnetic phenomena, and is so dependable that it

makes the swinging of the ship unnecessary.



In constructing a ship it is customary to make all metal parts within

approximately ten (10) feet of the magnetic-compass stand of bronze,

brass or other non-magnetic material. The proximity of magnetic metals

seriously affects the accuracy of the compass. All electric leads are

run so as to clear the vicinity of the compass, as the magnetic fields

set up by such conductors seriously influence the compass needle.

Actual experience is on record that the total installation cost of the

Sperry Gyro-Compass has been saved many times over by the elimination

of special metals and special run of electric leads.



[Illustration: Gyro-Compass School for Training Ship’s Officers and

Men.]



Before starting on a long voyage, especially with a new ship using the

magnetic compass, it is customary to swing the ship through a complete

circle to check deviation. To swing ship it is first necessary to pick

out a suitable object on land having a known bearing to the ship.

This object is used as a reference point. If at sea observations are

taken on the sun. The ship is then swung through 360 degrees, stopping

usually on each 15-degree heading, and noting the deviation. A table

is made up showing the deviation on each of these headings. An attempt

is then made to so adjust or manipulate the compensating magnets to

eliminate the error found. The ship must then again be swung through

360 degrees, stopping at headings as before to check the applied

compensation.



[Illustration: A Stern-wheeler of early steam-boating days.]



On some ships it is the custom to check the deviation by the deflector

magnet method. The ship in this case is put on a certain heading and a

magnet placed to one side of the compass and the deviation noted. The

same magnet is then placed at an equal distance to the opposite side

and the deviation noted. The difference, if any, between the readings

is the deviation on that particular course.



With either method of checking for deviation, considerable time

is used. It is not necessary to check for deviation or apply any

compensation to the Gyro-Compass, as it is not magnetic. In fact the

Gyro-Compass has nothing whatever to do with magnetism.



When at sea the Gyro-Compass affords the means of keeping to the

straight-line, true course. The line A B, Figure 5, shows the

straight-line course from the port of New York to the port of

Liverpool. The line A C E B shows, with exaggeration, the actual course

steered due to compass and other errors. At the point E the ship’s

position was checked by observation of a celestial body. The line E B

represents the new course set to bring the ship to her destination.

This is an occurrence which sometimes happens not once but often during

a voyage.



[Illustration: Figure 5. Errors of Magnetic Compass Cause Departure

From Desired Course.]



It is evident that a loss of time is involved when the ship leaves her

straight line course. The inherent accuracy of the Sperry Gyro-Compass

enables the ship to keep to the straight line course, and also to steer

directly on true courses.



By keeping on a straight line course the ship is enabled to make a

good many more miles on the same number of revolutions or turns of

the propeller. Under exactly the same weather conditions a 16,000 ton

liner made 370 miles in 24 hours at an average of 86.95 revolutions per

minute per mile when steered by a magnetic compass, and the same liner

made 377 miles with 85.61 revolutions per minute per mile when steered

by the Gyro-Compass. This saving amounts to easily $50 per day for this

ship. During her eleven-day voyage she saved $550. At this rate of

saving the Gyro-Compass equipment is soon paid for.



[Illustration: Steering Repeater in Wheel House.]



[Illustration: The Turbinia was the first turbine steamer.]



The Sperry Gyro-Compass does not oscillate with the rolling of the

ship, or in other words, has no heeling error. The use of the helm

is greatly diminished. Records show that on one trans-Atlantic liner

a saving of 24 percent in the revolutions of the steering engine,

when steered by Gyro-Compass, was effected. One of the largest

trans-Atlantic liners reports that but one-third of the helm is used

when the ship is steered by Gyro-Compass.



This saving in the use of the steering engine gives actual proof that

the ship navigated by a Gyro-Compass steers a straight line course.

It further proves that the ship does not divert its slip-stream as

often—the power output of the main engines is thereby reduced.



Records taken on a well-known passenger liner show that in making her

regular trip between New York and Jacksonville, Florida, she saved more

than two hours due to steering by a Sperry Gyro-Compass. A saving of

3,410 turns of her propeller was also effected. These savings were made

even with much greater than the usual draft.



Records taken by means of the Sperry Recording Compass show that when

the helmsman is given a certain course he can keep the ship one and

one-half degrees nearer the course when steering by the Gyro-Compass

than when steering by magnetic compass.



The Gyro-Compass can make great savings in money both in construction

and operation of the ship. These factors are perhaps trivial when

compared with the safety factor introduced by the use of the Sperry

Gyro-Compass.



[Illustration: High Potential Test on Repeaters.]



Due to the elimination of the many uncertainties of the magnetic

compass, insurance companies are favorably disposed toward the use of

the Sperry Gyro-Compass, which ultimately will result in a reduction of

insurance rates.



The use of the Sperry Gyro-Compass eliminates inaccuracies due to

navigation, thereby saving time, insuring the ship, the cargo, and the

lives of passengers and crew.



Sperry Gyro-Compasses are operating on many of the world’s largest

and fastest passenger liners and cargo ships. These ships are making

savings every day of fuel used and time required to make their courses.

The navigators using these compasses find that they can come very much

nearer their calculated positions when steering by the Gyro-Compass.

The Gyro-Compass makes the art of navigation more exact.



The Sperry Gyro-Compass is the only one to pass the service tests in

the world’s navies.



[Illustration: Schooners are economical, needing but small crews.]









_The Sperry Gyro-Compass Equipment_





The equipment which applies the principle set forth in a practical way

consists of:



1. The Master, True North Compass.



2. Compass Control-Panel—for controlling the electric current.



3. Repeaters—operated from the Master Compass, and indicating its

exact reading at any instant.



4. Motor-generator—for converting the ship’s current into current of

proper characteristics for spinning the gyro wheels and operating the

repeaters.



5. Storage Battery—for emergency operation of the equipment in case of

failure of the ship’s supply.



The function of each piece of equipment and its relation to other parts

is shown on pages 22 and 23.





The Master Compass



The Master Gyro-Compass is contained within a binnacle stand, with

glass dome top.



As shown in the photographs and sectional view, the twin gyro-wheels

are supported from a frame-work which is in turn set in gimbal rings.

The outer gimbal ring is attached to the binnacle stand by means of a

number of supporting springs. The springs are provided for protecting

the compass against sudden jars and vibrations. Figure 18 shows a

photograph of the top view, while the wheels are shown from below in

Figure 16.



A diagrammatic representation of the Sperry Gyro-Compass is shown in

plan view in Figure 17. The elevation, or side view, is shown in Figure

15. These drawings show the working parts of the Gyro-Compass. Each of

the twin gyro-wheels is enclosed in a case, which is in turn suspended

from the main frame and spider.



The wheels are spun at a high speed in unison by means of electricity.

The force of the earth’s rotation combines with the force resulting

from the rotating wheels. The resultant action of these two forces is

that both wheels turn their axes directly into, or parallel with, the

earth’s north and south meridian. The compass card, of course, also

turns and indicates direction by comparing the stationary “lubber

line,” representing the ship’s head, with the compass card.



[Illustration: Using Bearing Repeater at Sea.]



[Illustration: The trade of China is carried in clumsy Junks.]



[Illustration: Figure 6. Control Panel.



Figure 7. Motor Generator.



Figure 8. Master Compass.



Figure 9. Storage Battery.]



[Illustration: Steel Square-riggers still compete with steamers.]



[Illustration: Figure 10. Repeater on Steering Stand.



Figure 11. Repeater, Bulkhead Type.



Figure 12. Bearing Repeater in Pelorus Stand.]



[Illustration: The Dhow is the trading ship of East Africa.]



[Illustration: Figure 14.]



A single gyro-wheel would constitute a satisfactory stationary, or

“land compass.” On shipboard the roll, yaw and pitch of the ship would

impose additional duty on a single wheel. It would have to point not

only True North, but also offset the effect of the sea. One of the two

wheels is arranged to always point True North, while its twin wheel

opposes and neutralizes all influences other than the force of the

earth’s rotation. The force of both wheels is utilized in seeking the

meridian.



The Master Gyro-Compass is a marvel of mechanical perfection and

ruggedness. Every rotating or revolving part moves upon special

bearings to reduce friction. It should be noted also that the

gyro-wheels do not directly operate the compass card. The compass card

is turned by a small electric motor (Azimuth Motor), Figure 17. The

slightest change in position between the wheels and card operates the

“trolley” or electrical contact, which controls the Azimuth Motor. The

card is made to “shadow” the wheels. The follow-up is so close that the

card frame has been called the “phantom.”



An electrical transmitter, Figure 17, is operated by the movement of

the card. This transmitter is the means by which the repeaters are

kept in unison with the movements of the Master Gyro-Compass, and made

to show the exact reading at any instant. Again the Azimuth Motor

furnishes the very slight amount of power required to operate this

device.



[Illustration: Figure 13.]



The Master Compass is placed near the center of the ship at the water

line. At this point the effect of rolling is at a minimum. It is,

however, not necessary to place it exactly at this position. Figure

13 shows the approximate location of the various pieces of equipment

aboard ship.





The Repeaters



[Illustration: An indispensable link between producer and consumer.]



A familiar application of the repeater principle is that used in

hotels and public buildings, where a number of repeater clocks are

operated from one master instrument. Likewise, the repeater used upon

the bridge, the bearing repeater, and the one at the after steering

station, are all operated by electricity in perfect unison with the

Master Gyro-Compass and show the exact reading of the Master at any

instant. Repeaters are operated by a small electric motor within each

case, controlled by the transmitter at the Master Gyro. In designing

the repeaters particular attention has been given to the electrical

circuits so as to make all connections water, spray and condensation

proof. Stuffing tubes of improved design are used at all outlets and

entrances.



A miniature electric lamp within the repeater supplies the necessary

illumination of the dial. The illumination can be brightened or dimmed

by turning the switch handle on the face of the terminal box.



The repeaters are supplied in three styles:



1. Repeater mounted on steering stand—for use on bridge.



2. Bearing repeater mounted within pelorus stand.



3. Repeater mounted on bulkhead in Master’s room, or at the after

steering station.



Special stands or fixtures can be supplied if necessary.



A metal “non-reflection” cover is supplied which can be fitted to

either the bridge or the after steering repeaters. The cover has

adjustable doors and a hood. Its object is to exclude all light from

the top glass of the repeater except at the lubber’s line. No light

will be reflected into the eyes of the helmsman. The doors can be

closed until a very small sector of the repeater dial appears at

the lubber’s line. Experience has proved that it is easier to watch

and concentrate when only a small portion of the dial is visible. A

magnifying glass can be used in conjunction with the cover so that the

repeater indication can be read at a distance.



[Illustration: Bearing Repeater with Sperry Azimuth Circle.]



The bridge and after steering repeaters are mounted on adjustable

brackets. The position of the repeater can be changed so as to allow a

full face view of the dial from almost any angle.



The bearing repeater is of great aid to the navigator. The repeater

is mounted within the stand and, of course, shows the exact reading

of the Master Compass. In taking a bearing on a distant object or

a sun azimuth it is not necessary to first set the “dumb” compass

to correspond with the main compass. A constant true indication is

afforded.



Installation of the bearing repeater can be made in such a position on

the upper bridge so that it may be used for steering from that position

as well as for taking bearings. A special pelorus stand cover can be

supplied with windows to allow steering with the cover on, so as to

protect the repeater from spray and the weather.



[Illustration: The light unsinkable Kayak of the Eskimo.]



[Illustration: Figure 15.]



[Illustration: Figure 16.]



[Illustration: An Ore-steamer of the American Great Lakes.]



[Illustration: Figure 17.]



[Illustration: Figure 18.]



[Illustration: The great painted War-Canoe of Alaskan Indians.]



An improved design of azimuth circle is furnished which fits directly

over the top of the repeater. Figures 24 and 26, on page 30, show

the azimuth circle and bearing repeater in use, taking a bearing on

a distant object, and on the sun respectively. This azimuth circle

is so constructed as to bring the object, the spirit level and dial

within the field of vision concurrently. The bearing can be taken with

great accuracy. There is no possibility of the Master Compass changing

its position while the pelorus is in use. Such an occurrence is not

uncommon when using the ordinary pelorus or “dummy” compass.



An additional graduated ring, Figure 25, is supplied for placing under

the azimuth circle so that in case the Gyro-Compass is not operating

such, for instance, as when the ship is at anchor, the pelorus can

still be used as a “dumb” compass. The main compass setting is made

upon the ring, and the azimuth circle used in the usual manner.



The bearing repeater can be furnished with any one of three kinds of

azimuth circles. The Ritchie circle is usually supplied. The purchaser

also has the option of choosing either the Sperry circle or the Kelvin

Azimuth Mirror.





Compass Control-Panel



The compass control-panel provides a means for controlling the

various electrical parts of the Gyro-Compass, the storage battery,

motor-generator and ship’s supply current. It is very compact, neat,

and of good appearance. It receives electrical power from the ship’s

mains and distributes it to the motor-generator set, Master Compass and

repeater.



The switch panel is made up of black ebony asbestos, mounted upon angle

iron. The panel is usually mounted with its back near the bulkheads,

but so hinged as to admit of access to its rear.





Motor-Generator



The Motor-Generator supplied is an efficient and exceptionally reliable

piece of equipment. Its purpose is to convert the ship’s supply

current into electricity of the characteristics used in spinning the

gyro-wheels and operating the repeaters.



[Illustration: Line of Precision Lathes.]





Storage Battery



The complete failure of the electrical plant aboard a modern ship is

an event of rare occurrence. If, however, such a contingency should

occur, provision has been made for it in the Gyro-Compass equipment

by supplying a storage battery of sufficient capacity to operate the

entire equipment for a period of two hours. The battery is so connected

electrically as to keep itself in a charged condition while the compass

is operating under normal conditions.



[Illustration: A Super-dreadnought, the bulwark of sea power.]



[Illustration: FIG. 19, FIG. 20, FIG. 21, FIG. 22, FIG. 23.



Sperry Gyro-Compass Repeaters.]



[Illustration: The Dahabeah is the passenger boat of the Nile.]



[Illustration: FIG. 24, FIG. 25, FIG. 26.



Sperry Gyro-Compass Bearing Repeater With Azimuth Circle.]



[Illustration: A fast-steaming hotel for ocean travelers.]



[Illustration: FIG. 27, FIG. 28, FIG. 29, FIG. 30.



Bearing Repeater Mounted in Pelorus Stand.]



[Illustration: Malay pirates use the swift-sailing Proa.]



[Illustration: Figure 31.]





Sperry Recording Compass



An outstanding feature of the Gyro-Compass is that it makes possible

the recording of the actual courses steered by a vessel. The recording

compass is connected to the electrical circuits like a repeater and

follows the movements of the Master Compass. It not only indicates the

heading at any instant, but also makes a graphic record on a chart.

Radial lines on the chart represent the various courses. Concentric

circles represent time—each small division five minutes—each large

division one hour.



The dial on which the chart is mounted turns with the movements of the

master compass bringing the correct course under the marking point.

As the time advances a line is marked on the chart showing the exact

course steered at a definite time. On starting, the marking arm is at

the inner edge, clockwork moves it toward the outer edge with uniform

motion.



[Illustration: Figure 32.]



The chart shown in Figure 32 forms a valuable record. It was taken on

a ship at a time a radio call was received from a burning oil tanker.

Being within the distance defined by law, the ship was legally, as well

as morally bound to proceed to the distressed ship. The chart shows

that the course was altered to go to the tanker’s aid. It also showed

the exact time, thereby establishing proof as to the fulfillment of

the obligation. A few minutes later another radio call advised that

the fire aboard the tanker was extinguished. The chart shows that the

course was again altered to bring the vessel back on her original given

course.



[Illustration: The Destroyer is the grey-hound of the sea.]



The chart further shows the actual courses steered in holding the ship

on its given course. It shows just how efficiently each helmsman

handles the ship. It provides an excellent method of training helmsmen

to use less helm, effecting a saving by less frequent use of the

steering engine.



The recording compass is a great aid to the Captain and Navigator in

improving the navigating efficiency of the ship.



The recording compass can be supplied as a part of the Gyro-Compass

equipment—its additional cost is small when compared to the saving and

benefits derived from its use.





Operation



The operation of the Sperry Gyro-Compass is made easy by making all

parts as simple as possible.



In starting the equipment it is necessary to turn but one switch. The

twin wheels immediately start spinning and will in a short time come up

to the normal speed.



After the speed has been attained, a short time is allowed for the

wheels to cause their axes to “settle,” or, in other words, to seek and

hold the meridian.



In case of failure of the ship’s supply, or other trouble, an audible

signal immediately gives indication that something is wrong. This is

a decided improvement over the ordinary compass, as no indication is

afforded of the presence of factors which cause errors in its reading.





Care



All of the greatest commercial aids require some care, such, for

instance, as the telephone, typewriter, adding machine, duplicating

machine and so on.



[Illustration: Bearing Repeater Equipped with Windows in Storm Cover.]



The magnetic compasses aboard ship receive especially watchful

attention, to see that they are not meddled or tampered with. As a rule

the entire ship’s crew, including the youngest apprentice, knows that

the compass must in no way be handled.



It should be remembered that the Sperry Gyro-Compass is a mechanical

compass. Although the very best materials, design and skill enter

into its construction, it is still liable to failure. Even with that

possibility, it is so superior to the magnetic compass that it more

than justifies its installation use. In the same way the electric

light, although liable to failure, is vastly superior to the old oil

lamp. The oil lamps are seldom used, yet they are carried aboard ships

for the contingency which might happen. Similarly a failure of the

electric or hydraulic steering gear may necessitate the temporary use

of the inefficient hand-steering gear.



[Illustration: In Venice, graceful Gondolas take the place of cabs.]



[Illustration: Fig. 33. Repeater at After Steering Station.



Fig. 35. Repeater on Wing of Upper Bridge.



Fig. 34. Bearing Repeater on top of Wheel-house.]



[Illustration: Steam-yachting is the most costly of all sports.]



[Illustration: Fig. 37. Bearing Repeater.



Fig. 36. Repeater at Steering Station.]



[Illustration: The Mediterranean Felucca, swift in all weathers.]



[Illustration: Fig. 38. Master Compasses on Long Run Floor Test.



Fig. 39. Master Compasses under Test on Special Machine constructed to

simulate the motion of a Ship in a Heavy Sea.]



[Illustration: The Submarine, the unseen terror of the seas.]









_Sperry Service_



When a Gyro-Compass is sold the interest of The Sperry Gyroscope

Company does not cease. Our interest in our customer is only beginning.

An experienced service engineer installs every Sperry Gyro-Compass.

This engineer is also available to make the first trip with the compass

in order to assure its proper operation. After installation the Sperry

Service Engineers are available in every large port in the world to

come aboard and inspect, clean, repair and overhaul the Gyro-Compass

equipment so as to keep it in first class operating condition. A

radiogram sent to any of the Sperry Service Stations will bring a

Service Engineer to meet your ship. During the first year there is no

charge. After this period a reasonable charge is made for the service.

Such a charge is similar to that at present made by compass-adjusters.



A list of the Sperry Representatives is given on the title page of this

book.





Workmanship



[Illustration: Ritchie Azimuth Circle in Use on Bearing Repeater.]



The Sperry Gyro-Compass is an instrument of precision. From the work

done by the Gyro-Compass and the objects accomplished it would be

natural to class it as a scientific instrument. It is, however, more

than that for the reason that it has been made strong and sturdy for

operation under the most severe conditions at sea. The most expert and

skilled workmanship is required to combine strength and precision, such

as found in the Gyro-Compass. The Sperry organization prides itself

upon having the best workmen that can be obtained for their respective

vocations.



The materials used are the very best obtainable. The rigid and

inflexible set of purchasing specifications insures receiving the best

materials.



A well organized inspection force passes upon all material upon its

receipt, and through the various manufacturing stages to the final

product.



[Illustration: The Sampan shoots the rapids of Japanese rivers.]



Testing



Each Sperry Gyro-Compass is on test for several days. During this time

it is put through every devisable test to simulate the conditions

under which it will have to operate. Figures 38 and 39 show a compass

mounted on a stand which is operated by means of motor driven gears,

cams, etc., so as to reproduce the roll, pitch and yaw of a ship at

sea. Absolute accuracy of the Master Compass and all repeaters while

operating under this condition is required.



The purchaser is thereby assured that the compass to be installed upon

his ship will have had all manufacturing inaccuracies or so-called

“kinks” worked out. A record of the test accompanies each compass.





Packing



Special care is taken in packing the Gyro-Compass for shipment.

Experience gained from the shipment of hundreds of compasses has

devised means whereby to insure the safe arrival of all parts so that

installation will not be delayed.



In order that no injury may result to any parts, the Gyro-Compass is

unpacked under the supervision of the Sperry Service Engineer.





The Sperry Service Organization



The Sperry Service Organization is one which serves in all parts of the

world. A corps of Service Engineers, having special training at the

factory in all departments relating to the Gyro-Compass, are available

in nearly every large port of the world. These engineers are ready to

come aboard your ship, to clean, adjust and overhaul the Gyro-Compass,

thus relieving the navigator of all care other than the actual use of

the Gyro-Compass.



[Illustration: Master Compasses on Testing Machine which simulates the

Roll, Pitch and Yaw of Ship at Sea.]



During the war we had Service Engineers in every port where the ships

of the Navy were likely to call. Our men have been in many of the

naval actions and have been able to render very considerable service

on many unusual occasions. For example, it was desired to place an

equipment on a British ship which was on her way to the Dardanelles.

The Admiralty instructed us by telegram to have an equipment and a

Service Engineer meet the ship at the British Naval Station at Malta in

the Mediterranean. By sending the equipment with our Service Engineer

via a passenger train to the south of Italy and via destroyer to Malta

we were able to meet the ship there on the day she arrived. The ship

was able to stay only twenty-four hours, and as it took about four days

to install the equipment, our engineer remained on board and finished

the work while the ship was enroute from Malta to the Dardanelles.



[Illustration: The Whale-back, steadiest of all in rough weather.]



This ship, the _Inflexible_, arrived at the Dardanelles just in time

to join in the first naval action directed against the land batteries.

During the first part of the engagement our engineer remained with the

Master Compass which was installed near the dynamo room. When he saw

that it was functioning properly he left it to go on deck and view the

action, the effects of which he had become aware of, as a number of

shells from the land batteries had hit the ship. Almost immediately

after he arrived on deck a torpedo struck the ship directly under the

compartment where the Gyro-Compass was located, killing every man in

that compartment. Although badly damaged the ship was able to get

out of range of the land batteries and reach the naval base near the

Dardanelles.



The Gyro-Compass was, of course, almost totally destroyed. Shortly

after the action ended our engineer was enabled to get ashore on a

Greek island via one of the British destroyers. This island had a

telegraph station which he used to cable us that “Equipment No. 286 is

under four feet of water,” and that we should have another equipment

ready to replace it. We took this telegram to the Admiralty who

authorized us to have another equipment prepared to meet this ship

at Gibraltar. This we did, again sending a Service Engineer who met

the ship at Gibraltar, on her way back to England to be repaired and

refitted.



The Sperry Service Organization stands ready to help all ships equipped

with a Gyro-Compass at all times, even in emergencies such as those

experienced by naval vessels.





Service Given to the World’s Navies by the Gyro-Compass



[Illustration: Steering from Bearing Repeater.]



[Illustration: The Coracle of ancient Britain, still used in Wales.]



At the time of the battle of Coronel on the west coast of South

America, H. M. S. _Invincible_ was being overhauled at the Portsmouth

Dockyard in England. She was immediately ordered with one other large

British ship to South American waters under the command of Admiral

Sturdee, to re-enforce the British fleet, and then to find and destroy

the German ships which had defeated the British at the battle of

Coronel. When the overhaul of the _Invincible_ was completed and she

was ready to leave the docks, it was at first planned to delay sailing

until the ship could be swung and the magnetic compasses compensated.

It was decided, however, that although the compasses were badly in

need of adjustment it was necessary to save every minute in order to

reach South American waters before the German ships could find and

destroy the British ships remaining in those waters. The _Invincible_

therefore sailed without adjusting her magnetic compasses and navigated

entirely by the Sperry Gyro-Compass from Portsmouth to the Falkland

Islands. When an azimuth was finally taken the magnetic compass was

found to be out about 22 degrees. The _Invincible_ arrived at the

Falkland Islands just in time to coal before the German fleet appeared.

If H. M. S. _Invincible_ had not had a Gyro-Compass the probabilities

are that she would not have reached the Falkland Islands in time to win

the battle which took place almost immediately upon her arrival.



Figure 49 shows a British submarine, a sister ship of the E-11, that

entered the Sea of Marmora through the Dardanelles for the purpose of

destroying Turkish and German shipping. The E-11 put a torpedo right

into Constantinople harbor. The Second Officer of the E-11 in relating

this exploit, stated that they steered by the “Sperry” all the way in

and out. His remark was that, “It never let me down.”



In this exploit, and many others of a similar nature, the Gyro-Compass

was used for all navigation. These extremely daring and hazardous

operations would not have been possible without this instrument.



A similar British submarine left Harwich on the east coast of England,

and during a period of three weeks made seven patrol trips, and without

once seeing the sun, finally returned to Harwich and picked up the buoy

at the mouth of the harbor without the least difficulty. The navigation

in this case was carried out entirely by the Gyro-Compass.



[Illustration: Repeaters on Test.]



Figure 54 is a photograph of H. M. S. _Lion_, the flagship of Admiral

Beatty in the battle of Jutland. This ship was provided with the Sperry

Gyro-Compass equipment early in the war. During the Jutland engagement

a fire broke out in a magazine of the _Lion_ immediately below the two

Master Compasses which were located in one compartment. It became so

hot that the lead sheathing was melted off the electric cables and one

of the Gyro-Compasses was heated until its parts fused. Notwithstanding

this same heat the other compass functioned throughout the entire

action. Of the ships engaged in the battle of Jutland practically all

except the destroyers were equipped with the Gyro-Compass. Every one of

them performed perfectly throughout the action except in the case of

the _Lion_ on which one was destroyed by fire.



Hundreds of Sperry Gyro-Compasses are veterans of many battles and

encounters under heavy gunfire and adverse conditions.



[Illustration: The Power Boat, small, able, reliable, comfortable.]



[Illustration: 40. R. M. S Bergensfjord. 41. R. M. S. Aquitania. 42. S.

S. Lenape. 43. S. S. Conneaut. 44. Yacht Lyndonia.



Ships Equipped with Sperry Gyro-Compass.]



[Illustration: Huge Dug-Outs are used on African rivers.]



[Illustration:



 45. U.S.S. Pennsylvania—

 © E. Muller, Jr.



 46. U.S.S. Bush.



 47. H.M.S. Invincible—

 © Underwood & Underwood.



 48. R. F. La Marsellaise—

 © Underwood & Underwood.



 49. H.M. Submarine E-11—

 © Underwood & Underwood.



Ships Equipped with Sperry Gyro-Compass.]



[Illustration: Great Colliers carry coal for the world’s navies.]



[Illustration:



 50. H. I. M. S. Kongo—

 © Underwood & Underwood.



 51. H. M. S. Conte di Cavour—

 © Underwood & Underwood.



 52. U. S. S. Delaware—

 First Ship to Carry Gyro-Compass.



 53. H. M. S. Queen Elizabeth—

 © Western Newspaper Union.



 54. H. M. S. Lion—

 © Underwood & Underwood.



Ships Equipped with Sperry Gyro-Compass.]



[Illustration: Speedy Ice-boats provide thrilling winter sport.]









 Telegrams Inland: SPERIGYCO, Vic, London.

           Foreign: SPERIGYCO, London.

 Telephone, 7398 VICTORIA.



 THE SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY, LTD.



 NEW YORK—LONDON—MILAN—PARIS PETROGRAD—TOKIO—COPENHAGEN

 STOCKHOLM—LA HAGUE



 15, VICTORIA STREET,

 LONDON, S. W.



 August 1st. 1916.



 B-3909.



 The Sperry Gyroscope Company,

 NEW YORK.



Gentlemen,



It gives me very great pleasure to inform you that my Company has

received from Their Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, under date

20th July, the following words of commendation:―



 “I am to add an expression of Their Lordships’ appreciation of the

 valuable assistance rendered to the Admiralty by your Company since

 the outbreak of War, in your very prompt and efficient execution of

 the important work entrusted to you”.



I might mention that this was the first recommendation given to a

private Firm by the British Admiralty for fifteen years, and had to be

concurred in by no less than thirty-seven Government Officials.



 Very truly yours,



 THE SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY LTD.



 [Illustration: signature]



 Managing Director.









TRANSCRIBER'S NOTE



Original spelling and grammar are generally retained. Illustrations are

moved from inside paragraphs to between paragraphs. Original italics

_looks like this_. Original small caps is converted to uppercase.



Page 21. The second and third list items under the heading "_The Sperry

Gyro-Compass Equipment_" were incorrectly labeled "3." and "2.", in that

order. These labels were corrected.























*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SPERRY GYRO-COMPASS ***





    



Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will

be renamed.



Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright

law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without paying copyright

royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,

and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following

the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for

copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very

easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may

do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected

by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





START: FULL LICENSE



THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK



To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free

distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work

(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic works



1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all

the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or

destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your

possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound

by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be

used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few

things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See

paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual

works in the collection are in the public domain in the United

States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you are located in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,

displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as

all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting

free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™

works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the

Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily

comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the

same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern

what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are

in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,

check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this

agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,

distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no

representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other

immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,

performed, viewed, copied or distributed:



    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions

    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms

    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. If you

    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws

    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

  

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is

derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not

contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in

the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are

redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply

either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms

will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works

posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this

work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including

any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access

to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official

version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means

of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,

performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing

access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

provided that:



    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has

        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid

        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are

        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty

        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in

        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he

        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™

        works.

    

    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

    



1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than

are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set

forth in Section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may

contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right

of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal

fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT

LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE

PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE

TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE

LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR

INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a

written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you

received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person

or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If

the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunities to fix the problem.



1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO

OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT

LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.



1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied

warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of

damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remaining provisions.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,

including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

Defect you cause.



Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of

computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It

exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations

from people in all walks of life.



Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the

assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s

goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the

state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by

U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.



The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up

to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donations to carry out its mission of

increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be

freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest

array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations

($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.



The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating

charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United

States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up

with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations

where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND

DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we

have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition

against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who

approach us with offers to donate.



International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make

any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from

outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.



Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation

methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other

ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works



Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be

freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and

distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed

editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which has the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,

including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.